temporal database|Introduction|A temporal database stores data relating to time instances.
multipurpose robot|Introduction|A robot is a machine—especially one programmable by a computer—capable of carrying out a complex series of actions automatically.
relational model|Introduction|The relational model (RM) is an approach to managing data using a structure and language consistent with first-order predicate logic, first described in 1969 by English computer scientist Edgar F. Codd, where all data is represented in terms of tuples, grouped into relations.
probabilistic model|Introduction|A statistical model is a mathematical model that embodies a set of statistical assumptions concerning the generation of sample data (and similar data from a larger population).
hybrid particle swarm optimization|Introduction|In computational science, particle swarm optimization (PSO) is a computational method that optimizes a problem by iteratively trying to improve a candidate solution with regard to a given measure of quality.
dynamic optimization problem (dop)|Introduction|In the field of cellular biology, single-cell analysis is the study of genomics, transcriptomics, proteomics, metabolomics and cell–cell interactions at the single cell level.
modal operator|Introduction|A modal connective (or modal operator) is a logical connective for modal logic.
kernel trick|Introduction|In machine learning, kernel machines are a class of algorithms for pattern analysis, whose best known member is the support-vector machine (SVM).
learning vector quantization|Introduction|In computer science, learning vector quantization (LVQ) is a prototype-based supervised classification algorithm.
explicit feedback|Introduction|Relevance feedback is a feature of some information retrieval systems.
interactive robot|Introduction|Bad Robot is an American film and television production company founded on May 27, 1999 and led by J. J. Abrams and Katie McGrath as Co-CEO. Under its Bad Robot Productions division, the company is responsible for the television series Alias, Lost, Fringe, Person of Interest, Revolution, and Westworld alongside the feature-length films Cloverfield, Star Trek, Super 8, Star Trek Into Darkness, Mission: Impossible – Ghost Protocol, Mission: Impossible – Rogue Nation, Star Wars Episodes VII and IX, 10 Cloverfield Lane, Star Trek Beyond, The Cloverfield Paradox, Mission: Impossible – Fallout, and Overlord.
ensemble learning|Introduction|In statistics and machine learning, ensemble methods use multiple learning algorithms to obtain better predictive performance than could be obtained from any of the constituent learning algorithms alone.
filter bank|Introduction|Filter is an American rock band formed in 1993 in Cleveland, Ohio, by singer Richard Patrick and guitarist and programmer Brian Liesegang.
first-order formula|Introduction|First-order logic—also known as predicate logic, quantificational logic, and first-order predicate calculus—is a collection of formal systems used in mathematics, philosophy, linguistics, and computer science.
heuristic programming|Introduction|In mathematical optimization and computer science, heuristic (from Greek εὑρίσκω "I find, discover") is a technique designed for solving a problem more quickly when classic methods are too slow or for finding an approximate solution when classic methods fail to find any exact solution.
wiki|Introduction|A wiki ( (listen) WIK-ee) is a hypertext publication collaboratively edited and managed by its own audience, using a web browser.
local binary pattern|Introduction|Local binary patterns (LBP) is a type of visual descriptor used for classification in computer vision.
commonsense knowledge|Introduction|In artificial intelligence research,  commonsense knowledge consists of facts about the everyday world, such as "Lemons are sour", that all humans are expected to know.
neighborhood structure|Introduction|Variable neighborhood search (VNS), proposed by Mladenović & Hansen in 1997, is a metaheuristic method for solving a set of combinatorial optimization and global optimization problems.
handwritten document|Introduction|A manuscript (abbreviated MS for singular and MSS for plural) was, traditionally, any document written by hand – or, once practical typewriters became available, typewritten – as opposed to mechanically printed or reproduced in some indirect or automated way.
c4.5 algorithm|Introduction|C4.5 is an algorithm used to generate a decision tree developed by Ross Quinlan.
training set|Introduction|In machine learning, a common task is the study and construction of algorithms that can learn from and make predictions on data.
relational algebra|Introduction|In database theory, relational algebra is a theory that uses algebraic structures with a well-founded semantics for modeling data, and defining queries on it.
fuzzy classifier|Introduction|Ludmila (Lucy) Ilieva Kuncheva is a Bulgarian-British computer scientist known for her research on pattern recognition and machine learning, and particularly on systems that combine results from multiple classifiers.
illumination invariant|Introduction|The scale-invariant feature transform (SIFT) is a computer vision algorithm to detect, describe, and match local features in images, invented by David Lowe in 1999.
real-time task|Introduction|A real-time operating system (RTOS) is an operating system (OS) for real-time applications that processes data and events that have critically defined time constraints.
cognitive network|Introduction|In communication networks, cognitive network (CN) is a new type of data network that makes use of cutting edge technology from several research areas (i.e.
biped walking|Introduction|Bipedalism is a form of terrestrial locomotion where an organism moves by means of its two rear limbs or legs.
ai planning|Introduction|Automated planning and scheduling, sometimes denoted as simply AI planning, is a branch of artificial intelligence that concerns the realization of strategies or action sequences, typically for execution by intelligent agents, autonomous robots and unmanned vehicles.
test sample|Introduction|The t-test is any statistical hypothesis test in which the test statistic follows a Student's t-distribution under the null hypothesis.
tabu search algorithm|Introduction|Tabu search is a metaheuristic search method employing local search methods used for mathematical optimization.
smart manufacturing|Introduction|Smart manufacturing is a broad category of manufacturing that employs computer-integrated manufacturing, high levels of adaptability and rapid design changes, digital information technology, and more flexible technical workforce training.
semi-tensor product|Introduction|In multilinear algebra, a tensor contraction is an operation on a tensor that arises from the natural pairing of a finite-dimensional vector space and its dual.
grammatical evolution|Introduction|Grammatical evolution (GE) is an evolutionary computation and, more specifically, a genetic programming (GP) technique (or approach) pioneered by Conor Ryan, JJ Collins and Michael O'Neill in 1998 at the BDS Group in the University of Limerick.
digital game|Introduction|A digital collectible card game (DCCG) or online collectible card game (OCCG) is a computer or video game that emulates collectible card games (CCG) and is typically played online or occasionally as a standalone video game.
monadic second-order logic|Introduction|In mathematical logic, monadic second-order logic (MSO) is the fragment of second-order logic where the second-order quantification is limited to quantification over sets.
knowledge reduction|Introduction|Reductionism is any of several related philosophical ideas regarding the associations between phenomena which can be described in terms of other simpler or more fundamental phenomena.
nash equilibrium|Introduction|In game theory, the Nash equilibrium, named after the mathematician John Nash, is the most common way to define the solution of a non-cooperative game involving two or more players.
sociology|Introduction|Sociology is a social science that focuses on society, human social behavior, patterns of social relationships, social interaction, and aspects of culture associated with everyday life.
soft computing|Introduction|Soft computing is a set of algorithms, including neural networks, fuzzy logic, and evolutionary algorithms.
citation needed|Introduction|"[Citation needed]" is a tag added by Wikipedia editors to unsourced statements in articles requesting citations to be added.
inference|Introduction|Reference is a relationship between objects in which one object designates, or acts as a means by which to connect to or link to, another object.
event calculus|Introduction|The event calculus is a logical language for representing and reasoning about events and their effects first presented by Robert Kowalski and Marek Sergot in 1986.
psychological theory|Introduction|Psychology is the scientific study of mind and behavior.
appearance modeling|Introduction|A color appearance model (CAM) is a mathematical model that seeks to describe the perceptual aspects of human color vision, i.e.
heuristic|Introduction|A heuristic (; from Ancient Greek  εὑρίσκω (heurískō) 'I find, discover'), or heuristic technique, is any approach to problem solving or self-discovery that employs a practical method that is not guaranteed to be optimal, perfect, or rational, but is nevertheless sufficient for reaching an immediate, short-term goal or approximation.
phrase-based statistical machine translation|Introduction|Statistical machine translation (SMT) is a machine translation paradigm where translations are generated on the basis of statistical models whose parameters are derived from the analysis of bilingual text corpora.
mechanism design|Introduction|Mechanism design is a field in economics and game theory that takes an objectives-first approach to designing economic mechanisms or incentives, toward desired objectives, in strategic settings, where players act rationally.
heuristic approach|Introduction|A heuristic (; from Ancient Greek  εὑρίσκω (heurískō) 'I find, discover'), or heuristic technique, is any approach to problem solving or self-discovery that employs a practical method that is not guaranteed to be optimal, perfect, or rational, but is nevertheless sufficient for reaching an immediate, short-term goal or approximation.
dynamic spectrum|Introduction|Dynamic spectrum management (DSM), also referred to as dynamic spectrum access (DSA), is a set of techniques based on theoretical concepts in network information theory and game theory that is being researched and developed to improve the performance of a communication network as a whole.
automatic verification|Introduction|In the context of hardware and software systems, formal verification is the act of proving or disproving the correctness of intended algorithms underlying a system with respect to a certain formal specification or property, using formal methods of mathematics.Formal verification can be helpful in proving the correctness of systems such as: cryptographic protocols, combinational circuits, digital circuits with internal memory, and software expressed as source code.
text mining|Introduction|Text mining, also referred to as text data mining, similar to text analytics, is the process of deriving high-quality information from text.
image collection|Introduction|The Internet Archive is an American digital library with the stated mission of "universal access to all knowledge".
associative classification|Introduction|An associative classifier (AC) is a kind of supervised learning model that uses association rules to assign a target value.
system testing|Introduction|System testing is testing conducted on a complete integrated system to evaluate the system's compliance with its specified requirements.System testing takes, as its input, all of the integrated components that have passed integration testing.
dimensionality reduction method|Introduction|Dimensionality reduction, or dimension reduction, is the transformation of data from a high-dimensional space into a low-dimensional space so that the low-dimensional representation retains some meaningful properties of the original data, ideally close to its intrinsic dimension.
variational inference|Introduction|Variational Bayesian methods are a family of techniques for approximating intractable integrals arising in Bayesian inference and machine learning.
multi-agent learning|Introduction|Multi-agent reinforcement learning (MARL) is a sub-field of reinforcement learning.
high-quality solution|Introduction|In computer science and operations research, a genetic algorithm (GA) is a metaheuristic inspired by the process of natural selection that belongs to the larger class of evolutionary algorithms (EA).
synset|Introduction|Sylhet (Bengali: সিলেট) is a metropolitan city in northeastern Bangladesh.
frequent item|Introduction|Apriori is an algorithm for frequent item set mining and association rule learning over relational databases.
telehealth|Introduction|Telehealth is the distribution of health-related services and information via electronic information and telecommunication technologies.
theory of emotion|Introduction|Emotions are mental states brought on by neurophysiological changes, variously associated with thoughts, feelings, behavioural responses, and a degree of pleasure or displeasure.
3d pose estimation|Introduction|3D pose estimation is a process of predicting the transformation of an object from a user-defined reference pose, given an image or a 3D scan.
background subtraction|Introduction|Foreground detection is one of the major tasks in the field of computer vision and image processing whose aim is to detect changes in image sequences.
attribute reduction|Introduction|Reductionism is any of several related philosophical ideas regarding the associations between phenomena which can be described in terms of other simpler or more fundamental phenomena.
motion detection|Introduction|Motion detection is the process of detecting a change in the position of an object relative to its surroundings or a change in the surroundings relative to an object.
spoken language processing|Introduction|The superior temporal sulcus (STS) is the sulcus separating the superior temporal gyrus from the middle temporal gyrus in the temporal lobe of the brain.
classifier|Introduction|Clarifiers are settling tanks built with mechanical means for continuous removal of solids being deposited by sedimentation.
non-cooperative game|Introduction|In game theory, a non-cooperative game is a game with competition between individual players, as opposed to cooperative games, and in which alliances can only operate if self-enforcing (e.g.
hybrid evolutionary algorithm|Introduction|In computational intelligence (CI), an evolutionary algorithm (EA) is a subset of evolutionary computation, a generic population-based metaheuristic optimization algorithm.
visual feature|Introduction|In computer vision and image processing, a feature is a piece of information about the content of an image; typically about whether a certain region of the image has certain properties.
evolution strategy|Introduction|In computer science, an evolution strategy (ES) is an optimization technique based on ideas of evolution.
decision theory|Introduction|Decision theory (or the theory of choice; not to be confused with choice theory) is a branch of applied probability theory concerned with the theory of making decisions based on assigning probabilities to various factors and assigning numerical consequences to the outcome.There are three branches of decision theory: Normative decision theory: Concerned with the identification of optimal decisions, where optimality is often determined by considering an ideal decision-maker who is able to calculate with perfect accuracy and is in some sense fully rational.
hopfield network|Introduction|A Hopfield network  (or Ising model of a neural network or Ising–Lenz–Little model) is a form of recurrent artificial neural network and a type of spin glass system popularised by John Hopfield in 1982 as described earlier by Little in 1974 based on Ernst Ising's work with Wilhelm Lenz on the Ising model.
fitness evaluation|Introduction|In evolutionary biology, fitness landscapes or adaptive landscapes  (types of evolutionary landscapes) are used to visualize the relationship between genotypes and reproductive success.
first order logic|Introduction|First-order logic—also known as predicate logic, quantificational logic, and first-order predicate calculus—is a collection of formal systems used in mathematics, philosophy, linguistics, and computer science.
mutation operation|Introduction|In biology, a mutation is an alteration in the nucleic acid sequence of the genome of an organism, virus, or extrachromosomal DNA. Viral genomes contain either DNA or RNA. Mutations result from errors during DNA or viral replication, mitosis, or meiosis or other types of damage to DNA (such as pyrimidine dimers caused by exposure to ultraviolet radiation), which then may undergo error-prone repair (especially microhomology-mediated end joining), cause an error during other forms of repair, or cause an error during replication (translesion synthesis).
object pose|Introduction|3D pose estimation is a process of predicting the transformation of an object from a user-defined reference pose, given an image or a 3D scan.
polarity classification|Introduction|In chemistry, polarity is a separation of electric charge leading to a molecule or its chemical groups having an electric dipole moment, with a negatively charged end and a positively charged end.
human driver|Introduction|A self-driving car, also known as an autonomous car, driver-less car, or robotic car (robo-car), is a car incorporating vehicular automation, that is, a ground vehicle that is capable of sensing its environment and moving safely with little or no human input.
pose estimation|Introduction|3D pose estimation is a process of predicting the transformation of an object from a user-defined reference pose, given an image or a 3D scan.
license plate detection|Introduction|A video management system, also known as video management software plus a video management server, is a component of a security camera system that in general: Collects video from cameras and other sources Records / stores that video to a storage device
Provides an interface to both view the live video, and access recorded videoA VMS can be the software component of a network video recorder (NVR) and digital video recorder (DVR), though in general a VMS tends to be more sophisticated and provide more options and capabilities than a packaged NVR device.Due to improvements in technology, it is necessary to make a distinction between a VMS and the built-in features of modern network based security cameras.
32-bit signed integer|Introduction|In computer science, an integer is a datum of integral data type, a data type that represents some range of mathematical integers.
gesture recognition|Introduction|Gesture recognition is a topic in computer science and language technology with the goal of interpreting human gestures via mathematical algorithms.
color image|Introduction|A digital image is an image composed of picture elements, also known as pixels, each with finite, discrete quantities of numeric representation for its intensity or gray level that is an output from its two-dimensional functions fed as input by its spatial coordinates denoted with x, y on the x-axis and y-axis, respectively.
formal learning|Introduction|Informal learning is characterized "by a low degree of planning and organizing in terms of the learning context, learning support, learning time, and learning objectives".
grammatical inference|Introduction|Grammar induction (or grammatical inference) is the process in machine learning of learning a formal grammar (usually as a collection of re-write rules or productions or alternatively as a finite state machine or automaton of some kind) from a set of observations, thus constructing a model which accounts for the characteristics of the observed objects.
gender studies|Introduction|Gender studies is an interdisciplinary academic field devoted to analysing gender identity and gendered representation.
Structured Query Language|Introduction|SQL ( (listen) S-Q-L,  "sequel"; Structured Query Language) is a domain-specific language used in programming and designed for managing data held in a relational database management system (RDBMS), or for stream processing in a relational data stream management system (RDSMS).
hand shape|Introduction|A shape or figure is a graphical representation of an object or its external boundary, outline, or external surface, as opposed to other properties such as color, texture, or material type.
ion bombardment|Introduction|Ion plating (IP) is a physical vapor deposition (PVD) process that is sometimes called ion assisted deposition (IAD) or ion vapor deposition (IVD) and is a version of vacuum deposition.
constrained problem|Introduction|In mathematical optimization, constrained optimization (in some contexts called constraint optimization) is the process of optimizing an objective function with respect to some variables  in the presence of constraints on those variables.
3d object retrieval|Introduction|A 3D Content Retrieval system is a computer system for browsing, searching and retrieving three dimensional digital contents (e.g.: Computer-aided design, molecular biology models, and cultural heritage 3D scenes,  etc.) from a large database of digital images.
schedulability analysis|Introduction|The term scheduling analysis in real-time computing includes the analysis and testing of the scheduler system and the algorithms used in real-time applications.
sql query|Introduction|The SQL SELECT statement returns a result set of records, from one or more tables.A SELECT statement retrieves zero or more rows from one or more database tables or database views.
grey system|Introduction|Grey relational analysis (GRA) was developed by Deng Julong of Huazhong University of Science and Technology.
social robotics|Introduction|A social robot is an autonomous robot that interacts and communicates with humans or other autonomous physical agents by following social behaviors and rules attached to its role.
reinforcement learning (rl)|Introduction|Reinforcement learning (RL) is an area of machine learning concerned with how intelligent agents ought to take actions in an environment in order to maximize the notion of cumulative reward.
hybrid optimization algorithm|Introduction|In computational science, particle swarm optimization (PSO) is a computational method that optimizes a problem by iteratively trying to improve a candidate solution with regard to a given measure of quality.
camshift|Introduction|The camshaft is a rotating object— usually made of metal— that contains pointed cams, which converts rotational motion to reciprocal motion.
artificial intelligence|Introduction|Artificial intelligence (AI) is intelligence demonstrated by machines, as opposed to the natural intelligence displayed by animals including humans.
particle swarm algorithm|Introduction|In computational science, particle swarm optimization (PSO) is a computational method that optimizes a problem by iteratively trying to improve a candidate solution with regard to a given measure of quality.
cyclostationary|Introduction|A cyclostationary process is a signal having statistical properties that vary cyclically with time.
face feature|Introduction|The face is the front of an animal's head that features the eyes, nose, skin and mouth, and through which animals express many of their emotions.
interval temporal logic|Introduction|Interval temporal logic (also interval logic) is a temporal logic for representing both propositional and first-order logical reasoning about periods of time that is capable of handling both sequential and parallel composition.
object tracking algorithm|Introduction|Video tracking is the process of locating a moving object (or multiple objects) over time using a camera.
formal model|Introduction|In logic, mathematics, computer science, and linguistics, a formal language consists of words whose letters are taken from an alphabet and are well-formed according to a specific set of rules.
service robotics|Introduction|Service robots assist human beings, typically by performing a job that is dirty, dull, distant, dangerous or repetitive.
local texture|Introduction|An image texture is a set of metrics calculated in image processing designed to quantify the perceived texture of an image.
conditional random fields (crfs)|Introduction|Conditional random fields (CRFs) are a class of statistical modeling methods often applied in pattern recognition and machine learning and used for structured prediction.
naive bayes classifier|Introduction|In statistics, naive Bayes classifiers are a family of simple "probabilistic classifiers" based on applying Bayes' theorem with strong (naive) independence assumptions between the features (see Bayes classifier).
hand motion|Introduction|In the field of gesture recognition and image processing, finger tracking is a high-resolution technique developed in 1969 that is employed to know the consecutive position of the fingers of the user and hence represent objects in 3D.
intelligence analysis|Introduction|Intelligence analysis is the application of individual and collective cognitive methods to weigh data and test hypotheses within a secret socio-cultural context.
image representation|Introduction|In digital image processing and computer vision, image segmentation is the process of partitioning a digital image into multiple image segments, also known as image regions or image objects (sets of pixels).
knowledge base|Introduction|A knowledge base (KB) is a technology used to store complex structured and unstructured information used by a computer system.
chinese character|Introduction|Chinese characters (traditional Chinese: 漢字; simplified Chinese: 汉字; pinyin: hànzì; Wade–Giles: han4 tzŭ4; Jyutping: hon3 zi6; lit.
attitude control|Introduction|Attitude control is the process of controlling the orientation of an aerospace vehicle with respect to an inertial frame of reference or another entity such as the celestial sphere, certain fields, and nearby objects, etc.
graph-matching algorithm|Introduction|In the mathematical discipline of graph theory, a matching or independent edge set in an undirected graph is a set of edges without common vertices.
graph matching|Introduction|Graph matching is the problem of finding a similarity between graphs.Graphs are commonly used to encode structural information in many fields, including computer vision and pattern recognition, and graph matching is an important tool in these areas.
automated reasoning|Introduction|In computer science, in particular in knowledge representation and reasoning and metalogic, the area of automated reasoning is dedicated to understanding different aspects of reasoning.
content management|Introduction|A content management system (CMS) is computer software used to manage the creation and modification of digital content (content management).
walking control|Introduction|Walking (also known as ambulation) is one of the main gaits of terrestrial locomotion among legged animals.
commonsense reasoning|Introduction|In artificial intelligence (AI), commonsense reasoning is a human-like ability to make presumptions about the type and essence of ordinary situations humans encounter every day.
character recognition|Introduction|Optical character recognition or optical character reader (OCR) is the electronic or mechanical conversion of images of typed, handwritten or printed text into machine-encoded text, whether from a scanned document, a photo of a document, a scene-photo (for example the text on signs and billboards in a landscape photo) or from subtitle text superimposed on an image (for example: from a television broadcast).Widely used as a form of data entry from printed paper data records – whether passport documents, invoices, bank statements, computerized receipts, business cards, mail, printouts of static-data, or any suitable documentation – it is a common method of digitizing printed texts so that they can be electronically edited, searched, stored more compactly, displayed on-line, and used in machine processes such as cognitive computing, machine translation, (extracted) text-to-speech, key data and text mining.
Closed-circuit television camera|Introduction|A closed-circuit television camera can produce images or recordings for surveillance or other private purposes.
object recognition|Introduction|Object recognition – technology in the field of computer vision for finding and identifying objects in an image or video sequence.
black-box optimization|Introduction|In machine learning, hyperparameter optimization or tuning is the problem of choosing a set of optimal hyperparameters for a learning algorithm.
branching time|Introduction|In probability theory, a branching process is a type of mathematical object known as a stochastic process, which consists of collections of random variables.
smart home|Introduction|Home automation or domotics is building automation for a home, called a smart home or smart house.
ambient assisted living|Introduction|An assisted living residence or assisted living facility (ALF) is a housing facility for people with disabilities or for adults who cannot or who choose not to live independently.
social software|Introduction|Social software, also known as social apps, include communication and interactive tools often based on the Internet.
passage retrieval|Introduction|Recall in memory refers to the mental process of retrieval of information from the past.
eye detection|Introduction|Eye tracking is the process of measuring either the point of gaze (where one is looking) or the motion of an eye relative to the head.
evolutionary programming|Introduction|Evolutionary programming is one of the four major evolutionary algorithm paradigms.
smart transportation solution|Introduction|An intelligent transportation system (ITS) is an advanced application which aims to provide innovative services relating to different modes of transport and traffic management and enable users to be better informed and make safer, more coordinated, and 'smarter' use of transport networks.
natural language processing|Introduction|Natural language processing (NLP) is a subfield of linguistics, computer science, and artificial intelligence concerned with the interactions between computers and human language, in particular how to program computers to process and analyze large amounts of natural language data.
image database|Introduction|IMAGE is a database management system (DBMS) developed by Hewlett Packard and included with the HP 3000 minicomputer.
global optimization problem|Introduction|Global optimization is a branch of applied mathematics and numerical analysis that attempts to find the global minima or maxima of a function or a set of functions on a given set.
word sense disambiguation|Introduction|Word-sense disambiguation (WSD) is the process of identifying which sense of a word is meant in a sentence or other segment of context.
mobile manipulation|Introduction|A mobile manipulator is a robot system built from a robotic manipulator arm mounted on a mobile platform.
backpropagation|Introduction|In machine learning, backpropagation (backprop, BP) is a widely used algorithm for training feedforward neural networks.
cartesian genetic programming|Introduction|Cartesian genetic programming is a form of genetic programming that uses a graph representation to encode computer programs.
evolutionary computation|Introduction|In computer science, evolutionary computation is a family of algorithms for global optimization inspired by biological evolution, and the subfield of artificial intelligence and soft computing studying these algorithms.
random forest|Introduction|Random forests or random decision forests is an ensemble learning method for classification, regression and other tasks that operates by constructing a multitude of decision trees at training time.
cluster analysis|Introduction|Cluster analysis or clustering is the task of grouping a set of objects in such a way that objects in the same group (called a cluster) are more similar (in some sense) to each other than to those in other groups (clusters).
3d object recognition|Introduction|In computer vision, 3D object recognition involves recognizing and determining 3D information, such as the pose, volume, or shape, of user-chosen 3D objects in a photograph or range scan.
commonsense|Introduction|Common sense (often just known as sense) is sound, practical judgment concerning everyday matters, or a basic ability to perceive, understand, and judge in a manner that is shared by (i.e.
word processing|Introduction|A word processor (WP) is a device or computer program that provides for input, editing, formatting, and output of text, often with some additional features.
bhattacharyya coefficient|Introduction|In statistics, the Bhattacharyya distance measures the similarity of two probability distributions.
emotional speech|Introduction|Affective computing is the study and development of systems and devices that can recognize, interpret, process, and simulate human affects.
historical document|Introduction|Historical documents are original documents that contain important historical information about a person, place, or event and can thus serve as primary sources as important ingredients of the historical methodology.
k nearest neighbor algorithm|Introduction|In statistics, the k-nearest neighbors algorithm (k-NN) is a non-parametric supervised learning method first developed by Evelyn Fix and Joseph Hodges in 1951, and later expanded by Thomas Cover.
frame difference|Introduction|Moving object detection is a technique used in computer vision and image processing.
cross-language information retrieval|Introduction|Cross-language information retrieval (CLIR) is a subfield of information retrieval dealing with retrieving information written in a language different from the language of the user's query.
feedback form|Introduction|Feedback occurs when outputs of a system are routed back as inputs as part of a chain of cause-and-effect that forms a circuit or loop.
background knowledge|Introduction|In the context of research and development (R&D) collaborations, background, foreground, sideground and postground intellectual property (IP) are four distinct forms of intellectual property assets.
gender recognition|Introduction|Multiple countries legally recognize non-binary or third gender classifications.
rule induction|Introduction|Rule induction is an area of machine learning in which formal rules are extracted from a set of observations.
modified differential evolution|Introduction|In evolutionary computation, differential evolution (DE) is a method that optimizes a problem by iteratively trying to improve a candidate solution with regard to a given measure of quality.
supervised machine learning|Introduction|Supervised learning (SL) is the machine learning task of learning a function that maps an input to an output based on example input-output pairs.
natural language processing system|Introduction|Natural language processing (NLP) is a subfield of linguistics, computer science, and artificial intelligence concerned with the interactions between computers and human language, in particular how to program computers to process and analyze large amounts of natural language data.
laser annealing|Introduction|Low-temperature polycrystalline silicon (LTPS) is polycrystalline silicon that has been synthesized at relatively low temperatures (~650 °C and lower) compared to in traditional methods (above 900 °C).
associative classifier|Introduction|An associative classifier (AC) is a kind of supervised learning model that uses association rules to assign a target value.
binary decision diagram (bdd)|Introduction|In computer science, a binary decision diagram (BDD) or branching program is a data structure that is used to represent a Boolean function.
local geometry|Introduction|Riemannian geometry is the branch of differential geometry that studies Riemannian manifolds, smooth manifolds with a Riemannian metric, i.e.
curse of dimensionality|Introduction|The curse of dimensionality refers to various phenomena that arise when analyzing and organizing data in high-dimensional spaces that do not occur in low-dimensional settings such as the three-dimensional physical space of everyday experience.
pattern classification|Introduction|In statistics, classification is the problem of identifying which of a set of categories (sub-populations) an observation (or observations) belongs to.
primary user|Introduction|Unix-like operating systems identify a user by a value called a user identifier, often abbreviated to user ID or UID. The UID, along with the group identifier (GID) and other access control criteria, is used to determine which system resources a user can access.
real time scheduling|Introduction|The term scheduling analysis in real-time computing includes the analysis and testing of the scheduler system and the algorithms used in real-time applications.
text detection|Introduction|Optical character recognition or optical character reader (OCR) is the electronic or mechanical conversion of images of typed, handwritten or printed text into machine-encoded text, whether from a scanned document, a photo of a document, a scene-photo (for example the text on signs and billboards in a landscape photo) or from subtitle text superimposed on an image (for example: from a television broadcast).Widely used as a form of data entry from printed paper data records – whether passport documents, invoices, bank statements, computerized receipts, business cards, mail, printouts of static-data, or any suitable documentation – it is a common method of digitizing printed texts so that they can be electronically edited, searched, stored more compactly, displayed on-line, and used in machine processes such as cognitive computing, machine translation, (extracted) text-to-speech, key data and text mining.
web information extraction|Introduction|Information extraction (IE) is the task of automatically extracting structured information from unstructured and/or semi-structured machine-readable documents and other electronically represented sources.
content-based video retrieval|Introduction|Content-based image retrieval, also known as query by image content (QBIC) and content-based visual information retrieval (CBVIR), is the application of computer vision techniques to the image retrieval problem, that is, the problem of searching for digital images in large databases (see this survey for a scientific overview of the CBIR field).
search process|Introduction|The information search process (ISP) is a six-stage process of information seeking behavior in library and information science.
fuzzy classification|Introduction|Fuzzy classification is the process of grouping elements into a fuzzy set whose membership function is defined by the truth value of a fuzzy propositional function.A fuzzy class ~C = { i | ~Π(i) } is defined as a fuzzy set ~C of individuals i satisfying a fuzzy classification predicate ~Π which is a fuzzy propositional function.
patient data|Introduction|The terms medical record, health record and medical chart are used somewhat interchangeably to describe the systematic documentation of a single patient's medical history and care across time within one particular health care provider's jurisdiction.
decision system|Introduction|A decision support system (DSS) is an information system that supports business or organizational decision-making activities.
inference engine|Introduction|In the field of artificial intelligence, an inference engine is a component of the system that applies logical rules to the knowledge base to deduce new information.
parameter adaptation|Introduction|In biology, adaptation has three related meanings.
associative storage|Introduction|Content-addressable memory (CAM) is a special type of computer memory used in certain very-high-speed searching applications.
sa algorithm|Introduction|Adaptive simulated annealing (ASA) is a variant of simulated annealing (SA) algorithm in which the algorithm parameters that control temperature schedule and random step selection are automatically adjusted according to algorithm progress.
pulse coupled neural network|Introduction|Pulse-coupled networks or pulse-coupled neural networks (PCNNs) are neural models proposed by modeling a cat's visual cortex, and developed for high-performance biomimetic image processing.In 1989, Eckhorn introduced a neural model to emulate the mechanism of cat's visual cortex.
control and automation|Introduction|Automation describes a wide range of technologies that reduce human intervention in processes.
retail price|Introduction|The list price, also known as the manufacturer's suggested retail price (MSRP), or the recommended retail price (RRP), or the suggested retail price (SRP) of a product is the price at which its manufacturer notionally recommends that a retailer sell the product.
facial action coding system|Introduction|The Facial Action Coding System (FACS) is a system to taxonomize human facial movements by their appearance on the face,  based on a system originally developed by a Swedish anatomist named Carl-Herman Hjortsjö.
hybrid logic|Introduction|Hybrid logic refers to a number of extensions to propositional modal logic with more expressive power, though still less than first-order logic.
relevance model|Introduction|Relevance is the concept of one topic being connected to another topic in a way that makes it useful   to consider the second topic when considering the first.
cognitive architecture|Introduction|A cognitive architecture refers to both a theory about the structure of the human mind and to a computational instantiation of such a theory used in the fields of artificial intelligence (AI) and computational cognitive science.
default reasoning|Introduction|Default logic is a non-monotonic logic proposed by Raymond Reiter to formalize reasoning with default assumptions.
illumination condition|Introduction|Dark-field microscopy (also called dark-ground microscopy) describes microscopy methods, in both light and electron microscopy, which exclude the unscattered beam from the image.
monocular image|Introduction|A monocular is a compact refracting telescope used to magnify images of distant objects, typically using an optical prism to ensure an erect image, instead of using relay lenses like most telescopic sights.
inductive logic programming|Introduction|Inductive logic programming (ILP) is a subfield of symbolic artificial intelligence  which uses logic programming as a uniform representation for examples, background knowledge and hypotheses.
markov chain monte carlo method|Introduction|In statistics, Markov chain Monte Carlo (MCMC) methods comprise a class of algorithms for sampling from a probability distribution.
decision-theoretic|Introduction|In the mathematical theory of decisions, decision-theoretic rough sets (DTRS) is a probabilistic extension of rough set classification.
knowledge transfer|Introduction|Knowledge transfer refers to sharing or disseminating of knowledge and providing inputs to problem solving.
simulated annealing algorithm|Introduction|Simulated annealing (SA) is a probabilistic technique for approximating the global optimum of a given function.
human evaluation|Introduction|Human evolution is the evolutionary process within the history of primates that led to the emergence of Homo sapiens as a distinct species of the hominid family, which includes the great apes.
modular robotics|Introduction|Modular self-reconfiguring robotic systems or self-reconfigurable modular robots are autonomous kinematic machines with variable morphology.
sentiment analysis|Introduction|Sentiment analysis (also known as opinion mining or emotion AI) is the use of natural language processing, text analysis, computational linguistics, and biometrics to systematically identify, extract, quantify, and study affective states and subjective information.
static timing analysis|Introduction|Static timing analysis (STA) is a simulation method of computing the expected timing of a synchronous digital circuit without requiring a simulation of the full circuit.
sequence labeling|Introduction|In machine learning, sequence labeling is a type of pattern recognition task that involves the algorithmic assignment of a categorical label to each member of a sequence of observed values.
human pose|Introduction|Human positions refer to the different physical configurations that the human body can take.
cyclostationarity|Introduction|A cyclostationary process is a signal having statistical properties that vary cyclically with time.
non-monotonic reasoning|Introduction|A non-monotonic logic is a formal logic whose conclusion relation is not monotonic.
graph neural network|Introduction|A Graph neural network (GNN) is a class of artificial neural networks for processing data that can be represented as graphs.
texture descriptor|Introduction|In computer vision, visual descriptors or image descriptors are descriptions of the visual features of the contents in images, videos, or algorithms or applications that produce such descriptions.
coalgebra|Introduction|In mathematics, coalgebras or cogebras are structures that are dual (in the category-theoretic sense of reversing arrows) to unital associative algebras.
attitude stabilization|Introduction|Attitude control is the process of controlling the orientation of an aerospace vehicle with respect to an inertial frame of reference or another entity such as the celestial sphere, certain fields, and nearby objects, etc.
hospital data processing|Introduction|Data preprocessing can refer to manipulation or dropping of data before it is used in order to ensure or enhance performance, and is an important step in the data mining process.
color component|Introduction|A color space is a specific organization of colors.
ensemble model|Introduction|Ensemble Modern is an international ensemble dedicated to performing and promoting the music of modern composers.
gender classification|Introduction|Sex is distinct from gender, which can refer to either social roles based on the sex of a person (gender role) or personal identification of one's own gender based on an internal awareness (gender identity).
mediawiki|Introduction|MediaWiki is a free and open-source wiki software.
knowledge discovery process|Introduction|Cross-industry standard process for data mining, known as CRISP-DM, is an open standard process model that describes common approaches used by data mining experts.
termination analysis|Introduction|In computer science, termination analysis is program analysis which attempts to determine whether the evaluation of a given program halts for each input.
temporal logic|Introduction|In logic, temporal logic is any system of rules and symbolism for representing, and reasoning about, propositions qualified in terms of time (for example, "I am always hungry", "I will eventually be hungry", or "I will be hungry until I eat something").
shadow removal|Introduction|Hair removal, also known as epilation or depilation, is the deliberate removal of body hair or head hair.
small sample size problem|Introduction|Sample size determination is the act of choosing the number of observations or replicates to include in a statistical sample.
task planning|Introduction|Task management is the process of managing a task through its life cycle.
algorithmic game theory|Introduction|Algorithmic game theory (AGT) is an area in the intersection of game theory and computer science, with the objective of understanding and design of algorithms in strategic environments.
decision analysis|Introduction|Decision analysis (DA) is the discipline comprising the philosophy, methodology, and professional practice necessary to address important decisions in a formal manner.
quantum-dot cellular automaton|Introduction|A quantum cellular automaton (QCA) is an abstract model of quantum computation, devised in analogy to conventional models of cellular automata introduced by John von Neumann.
individual rationality|Introduction|Rational choice theory refers to a set of guidelines that help understand economic and social behaviour.
mean shift algorithm|Introduction|Mean shift is a non-parametric feature-space mathematical analysis technique for locating the maxima of a density function, a so-called mode-seeking algorithm.
automatic target recognition|Introduction|Automatic target recognition (ATR) is the ability for an algorithm or device to recognize targets or other objects based on data obtained from sensors.
bidirectional associative memory|Introduction|Bidirectional associative memory (BAM) is a type of recurrent neural network.
missed detection|Introduction|An intrusion detection system (IDS; also intrusion prevention system or IPS) is a device or software application that monitors a network or systems for malicious activity or policy violations.
premature convergence|Introduction|In genetic algorithms, the term of premature convergence means that a population for an optimization problem converged too early, resulting in being suboptimal.
gabor wavelet transforms|Introduction|Gabor wavelets are wavelets invented by Dennis Gabor using complex functions constructed to serve as a basis for Fourier transforms in information theory applications.
handwritten chinese character|Introduction|Simplified Chinese characters are standardized Chinese characters used in Mainland China and Singapore, as prescribed by the Table of General Standard Chinese Characters.
nearest neighbor search|Introduction|Nearest neighbor search (NNS), as a form of proximity search,  is the optimization problem of finding the point in a given set that is closest (or most similar) to a given point.
associative processing|Introduction|In computer science, an associative array, map, symbol table, or dictionary is an abstract data type that stores a collection of (key, value) pairs, such that each possible key appears at most once in the collection.
cascade classifier|Introduction|Cascading is a particular case of ensemble learning based on the concatenation of several classifiers, using all information collected from the output from a given classifier as additional information for the next classifier in the cascade.
text region|Introduction|In computing and user interface engineering, a selection is a list of items on which user operations will take place.
head pose estimation|Introduction|In computer vision and robotics, pose of an object is the combination of the object's position and orientation.
double threshold|Introduction|The Canny edge detector is an edge detection operator that uses a multi-stage algorithm to detect a wide range of edges in images.
moving-object detection|Introduction|Object detection is a computer technology related to computer vision and image processing that deals with detecting instances of semantic objects of a certain class (such as humans, buildings, or cars) in digital images and videos.
inverse document frequency|Introduction|In information retrieval, tf–idf (also TF*IDF, TFIDF, TF–IDF, or Tf–idf), short for term frequency–inverse document frequency, is a numerical statistic that is intended to reflect how important a word is to a document in a collection or corpus.
relational database system|Introduction|A relational database is a (most commonly digital) database  based on the relational model of data, as proposed by E. F. Codd in 1970.
decision support system|Introduction|A decision support system (DSS) is an information system that supports business or organizational decision-making activities.
bayesian filtering|Introduction|In probability theory, statistics, and machine learning, recursive Bayesian estimation, also known as a Bayes filter, is a general probabilistic approach for estimating an unknown probability density function (PDF) recursively over time using incoming measurements and a mathematical process model.
human activity recognition|Introduction|Activity recognition aims to recognize the actions and goals of one or more agents from a series of observations on the agents' actions and the environmental conditions.
knowledge|Introduction|Knowledge can be defined as awareness of facts or as practical skills, and may also refer to familiarity with objects or situations.
product review|Introduction|A review is an evaluation of a publication, product, service, or company or a critical take on current affairs in literature, politics or culture.
knowledge based system|Introduction|A knowledge-based system (KBS) is a computer program that reasons and uses a knowledge base to solve complex problems.
proof system|Introduction|In computational complexity theory, an interactive proof system is an abstract machine that models computation as the exchange of messages between two parties: a prover and a verifier.
electronic record|Introduction|Records management, also known as records and information management, is an organizational function devoted to the management of information in an organization throughout its life cycle, from the time of creation or receipt to its eventual disposition.
spectrum measurement|Introduction|A spectrum analyzer measures the magnitude of an input signal versus frequency within the full frequency range of the instrument.
test set|Introduction|In machine learning, a common task is the study and construction of algorithms that can learn from and make predictions on data.
graphology|Introduction|Graphology is the analysis of handwriting with attempt to determine someone's personality traits.
sentence similarity|Introduction|Sequence homology is the biological homology between DNA, RNA, or protein sequences, defined in terms of shared ancestry in the evolutionary history of life.
formal specification|Introduction|In computer science, formal specifications are mathematically based techniques whose purpose are to help with the implementation of systems and software.
spatial clustering|Introduction|Density-based spatial clustering of applications with noise (DBSCAN) is a data clustering algorithm proposed by Martin Ester, Hans-Peter Kriegel, Jörg Sander and Xiaowei Xu in 1996.
service robot|Introduction|Service robots assist human beings, typically by performing a job that is dirty, dull, distant, dangerous or repetitive.
maximum entropy model|Introduction|The principle of maximum entropy states that the probability distribution which best represents the current state of knowledge about a system is the one with largest entropy, in the context of precisely stated prior data (such as a proposition that expresses testable information).
face recognition|Introduction|A facial recognition system is a technology capable of matching a human face from a digital image or a video frame against a database of faces, typically employed to authenticate users through ID verification services, works by pinpointing and measuring facial features from a given image.Development began on similar systems in the 1960s, beginning as a form of computer application.
particle swarm optimization|Introduction|In computational science, particle swarm optimization (PSO) is a computational method that optimizes a problem by iteratively trying to improve a candidate solution with regard to a given measure of quality.
iterated local search|Introduction|Iterated Local Search (ILS) is a term in applied mathematics and computer science
defining a modification of local search or hill climbing methods for solving discrete optimization problems.
abstracting and indexing|Introduction|An abstracting service is a service that provides abstracts of publications, often on a subject or group of related subjects, usually on a subscription basis.
formal approach|Introduction|In physics and probability theory, mean field theory (MFT) or self-consistent field theory studies the behavior of high-dimensional random (stochastic) models by studying a simpler model that approximates the original by averaging over degrees of freedom (the number of values in the final calculation of a statistic that are free to vary).
object segmentation|Introduction|In digital image processing and computer vision, image segmentation is the process of partitioning a digital image into multiple image segments, also known as image regions or image objects (sets of pixels).
opinion mining|Introduction|Sentiment analysis (also known as opinion mining or emotion AI) is the use of natural language processing, text analysis, computational linguistics, and biometrics to systematically identify, extract, quantify, and study affective states and subjective information.
formal ontology|Introduction|In philosophy, the term formal ontology is used to refer to an ontology defined by axioms in a formal language with the goal to provide an unbiased (domain- and application-independent) view on reality, which can help the modeler of domain- or application-specific ontologies (information science) to avoid possibly erroneous ontological assumptions encountered in modeling large-scale ontologies.
3d model retrieval|Introduction|A 3D Content Retrieval system is a computer system for browsing, searching and retrieving three dimensional digital contents (e.g.: Computer-aided design, molecular biology models, and cultural heritage 3D scenes,  etc.) from a large database of digital images.
image understanding|Introduction|Computer vision is an interdisciplinary scientific field that deals with how computers can gain high-level understanding from digital images or videos.
feature set|Introduction|Set It Up is a 2018 American romantic comedy film directed by Claire Scanlon, written by Katie Silberman, and starring Zoey Deutch, Glen Powell, Taye Diggs, and Lucy Liu.
bilingual corpus|Introduction|A parallel text is a text placed alongside its translation or translations.
abstract argumentation|Introduction|In artificial intelligence and related fields, an argumentation framework is a way to deal with contentious information and draw conclusions from it using formalized arguments.
electronic health record system|Introduction|An  electronic health record (EHR) is the systematized collection of patient and population electronically stored health information in a digital format.
local convergence|Introduction|In numerical analysis, an iterative method is called locally convergent if the successive approximations produced by the method are guaranteed to converge to a solution when the initial approximation is already close enough to the solution.
skin detection|Introduction|A skin condition, also known as cutaneous condition, is any medical condition that affects the integumentary system—the organ system that encloses the body and includes skin, nails, and related muscle and glands.
share knowledge|Introduction|Knowledge sharing is an activity through which knowledge (namely, information, skills, or expertise) is exchanged among people, friends, peers, families, communities (for example, Wikipedia), or within or between organizations.
basic emotion|Introduction|Emotion classification, the means by which one may distinguish or contrast one emotion from another, is a contested issue in emotion research and in affective science.
real-time face detection|Introduction|The Viola–Jones object detection framework is a machine learning object detection framework proposed in 2001 by Paul Viola and Michael Jones.
real robot|Introduction|Mecha anime and manga, known in Japan as robot anime (ロボットアニメ, robotto anime) and robot manga (ロボット漫画, robotto manga), are anime and manga that feature robots (mecha) in battle.
genetic fuzzy system|Introduction|In computer science and operations research, Genetic fuzzy systems are fuzzy systems constructed by using genetic algorithms or genetic programming, which mimic the process of natural evolution, to identify its structure and parameter.
text representation|Introduction|Well-known text (WKT) is a text markup language for representing vector geometry objects.
evolutionary optimization|Introduction|In computational intelligence (CI), an evolutionary algorithm (EA) is a subset of evolutionary computation, a generic population-based metaheuristic optimization algorithm.
intelligent controller|Introduction|The Intelligent Platform Management Interface (IPMI) is a set of computer interface specifications for an autonomous computer subsystem that provides management and monitoring capabilities independently of the host system's CPU, firmware (BIOS or UEFI) and operating system.
biped robot|Introduction|Bipedalism is a form of terrestrial locomotion where an organism moves by means of its two rear limbs or legs.
intelligent decision support system|Introduction|An intelligent decision support system (IDSS) is a decision support system that makes extensive use of artificial intelligence (AI) techniques.
neural network model|Introduction|Artificial neural networks (ANNs), usually simply called neural networks (NNs) or neural nets, are computing systems inspired by the biological neural networks that constitute animal brains.An ANN is based on a collection of connected units or nodes called artificial neurons, which loosely model the neurons in a biological brain.
defeasible logic|Introduction|Defeasible logic is a non-monotonic logic proposed by Donald Nute to formalize defeasible reasoning.
treebanks|Introduction|In linguistics, a treebank is a parsed text corpus that annotates syntactic or semantic sentence structure.
common-sense|Introduction|Common Sense is a 47-page pamphlet written by Thomas Paine in 1775–1776 advocating independence from Great Britain to people in the Thirteen Colonies.
radial based function|Introduction|A radial basis function (RBF) is a real-valued function whose value depends only on the distance between the input and some fixed point, either the origin.
text clustering|Introduction|Document clustering (or text clustering) is the application of cluster analysis to textual documents.
skin color model|Introduction|Human skin color ranges from the darkest brown to the lightest hues.
hierarchical cluster analysis|Introduction|In data mining and statistics, hierarchical clustering (also called hierarchical cluster analysis or HCA) is a method of cluster analysis that seeks to build a hierarchy of clusters.
subspace learning|Introduction|Multilinear subspace learning is an approach to dimensionality reduction.Dimensionality reduction can be performed on a data tensor whose observations have been vectorized and organized into a data tensor, or whose observations are matrices that are concatenated into a data tensor.
enterprise 2.0|Introduction|Web 2.0 (also known as participative (or participatory) web and social web) refers to websites that emphasize user-generated content, ease of use, participatory culture and interoperability (i.e., compatibility with other products, systems, and devices) for end users.
common-sense knowledge|Introduction|Common sense (often just known as sense) is sound, practical judgment concerning everyday matters, or a basic ability to perceive, understand, and judge in a manner that is shared by (i.e.
complex question|Introduction|A complex question, trick question, multiple question, fallacy of presupposition, or plurium interrogationum (Latin, 'of many questions')  is a question that has a presupposition that is complex.
boolean satisfiability|Introduction|In logic and computer science, the Boolean satisfiability problem (sometimes called propositional satisfiability problem and abbreviated SATISFIABILITY, SAT or B-SAT) is the problem of determining if there exists an interpretation that satisfies a given Boolean formula.
forecasting technique|Introduction|Forecasting is the process of making predictions based on past and present data.
swarm intelligence|Introduction|Swarm intelligence (SI) is the collective behavior of decentralized, self-organized systems, natural or artificial.
syntactic parsing|Introduction|Parsing, syntax analysis, or syntactic analysis is the process of analyzing a string of symbols, either in natural language, computer languages or data structures, conforming to the rules of a formal grammar.
off-line handwritten|Introduction|Handwriting recognition (HWR), also known as handwritten text recognition (HTR), is the ability of a computer to receive and interpret intelligible handwritten input from sources such as paper documents, photographs, touch-screens and other devices.
partial occlusion|Introduction|A coronary occlusion is the partial or complete obstruction of blood flow in a coronary artery.
support vector machine (svm)|Introduction|In machine learning, support-vector machines (SVMs, also support-vector networks) are supervised learning models with associated learning algorithms that analyze data for classification and regression analysis.
face image|Introduction|A facial recognition system is a technology capable of matching a human face from a digital image or a video frame against a database of faces, typically employed to authenticate users through ID verification services, works by pinpointing and measuring facial features from a given image.Development began on similar systems in the 1960s, beginning as a form of computer application.
character set|Introduction|Character encoding is the process of assigning numbers to graphical characters, especially the written characters of human language, allowing them to be stored, transmitted, and transformed using digital computers.
fuzzy description logic|Introduction|Description logics (DL) are a family of formal knowledge representation languages.
pareto distribution|Introduction|The Pareto distribution, named after the Italian civil engineer, economist, and sociologist Vilfredo Pareto (Italian: [paˈreːto] US:  pə-RAY-toh), is a power-law probability distribution that is used in description of social, quality control, scientific, geophysical, actuarial, and many other types of observable phenomena; the principle originally applied to describing the distribution of wealth in a society, fitting the trend that a large portion of wealth is held by a small fraction of the population.
transaction database|Introduction|A database transaction symbolizes a unit of work, performed within a database management system (or similar system) against a database, that is treated in a coherent and reliable way independent of other transactions.
knowledge engineering|Introduction|Knowledge engineering (KE) refers to all technical, scientific and social aspects involved in building, maintaining and using knowledge-based systems.
face recognition system|Introduction|A facial recognition system is a technology capable of matching a human face from a digital image or a video frame against a database of faces, typically employed to authenticate users through ID verification services, works by pinpointing and measuring facial features from a given image.Development began on similar systems in the 1960s, beginning as a form of computer application.
simulated annealing|Introduction|Simulated annealing (SA) is a probabilistic technique for approximating the global optimum of a given function.
classifier fusion|Introduction|In statistics and machine learning, ensemble methods use multiple learning algorithms to obtain better predictive performance than could be obtained from any of the constituent learning algorithms alone.
safety critical software|Introduction|A safety-critical system (SCS) or life-critical system is a system whose failure or malfunction may result in one (or more) of the following outcomes: death or serious injury to people; loss or severe damage to equipment/property
environmental harmA safety-related system (or sometimes safety-involved system) comprises everything (hardware, software, and human aspects) needed to perform one or more safety functions, in which failure would cause a significant increase in the safety risk for the people or environment involved.
question classification|Introduction|Questions act as a request for information, which is expected to be provided in the form of an answer.
negative association rule|Introduction|Association rule learning is a rule-based machine learning method for discovering interesting relations between variables in large databases.
exploration and exploitation|Introduction|Organizational ambidexterity refers to an organization's ability to be efficient in its management of today's business and also adaptable for coping with tomorrow's changing demand.
common-sense computing|Introduction|Open Mind Common Sense (OMCS) is an artificial intelligence project based at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology (MIT) Media Lab whose goal is to build and utilize a large commonsense knowledge base from the contributions of many thousands of people across the Web.
evolutionary search|Introduction|In computational intelligence (CI), an evolutionary algorithm (EA) is a subset of evolutionary computation, a generic population-based metaheuristic optimization algorithm.
evolutionary process|Introduction|Evolution is change in the heritable characteristics of biological populations over successive generations.
urban traffic network|Introduction|A transport network, or transportation network, is a  network or graph in geographic space, describing an infrastructure that permits and constrains movement or flow.
mean shift tracking|Introduction|Mean shift is a non-parametric feature-space mathematical analysis technique for locating the maxima of a density function, a so-called mode-seeking algorithm.
timing analysis|Introduction|Static timing analysis (STA) is a simulation method of computing the expected timing of a synchronous digital circuit without requiring a simulation of the full circuit.
acceleration data|Introduction|A shock data logger or vibration data logger is a measurement instrument that is capable of autonomously recording shocks or vibrations over a defined period of time.
grey system theory|Introduction|Grey relational analysis (GRA) was developed by Deng Julong of Huazhong University of Science and Technology.
decision procedure|Introduction|In computability theory and computational complexity theory, a decision problem is a computational problem that can be posed as a yes–no question of the input values.
decision tree model|Introduction|A decision tree  is a decision support tool that uses a tree-like model of decisions and their possible consequences, including chance event outcomes, resource costs, and utility.
ant system|Introduction|In computer science and operations research, the ant colony optimization algorithm (ACO) is a probabilistic technique for solving computational problems which can be reduced to finding good paths through graphs.
self-adaptive|Introduction|Self-adaptive mechanisms, sometimes simply called adaptive mechanisms, in engineering, are underactuated mechanisms that can adapt to their environment.
shapley value|Introduction|The Shapley value is a solution concept in cooperative game theory.
stigmergy|Introduction|Stigmergy ( STIG-mər-jee) is a mechanism of indirect coordination, through the environment, between agents or actions.
uml profile|Introduction|A profile in the Unified Modeling Language (UML) provides a generic extension mechanism for customizing UML models for particular domains and platforms.
algorithmics|Introduction|Algorithmics is the systematic study of the design and analysis of algorithms.
systems theory|Introduction|Systems theory is the interdisciplinary study of systems, i.e.
implicit feedback|Introduction|Relevance feedback is a feature of some information retrieval systems.
health record|Introduction|The terms medical record, health record and medical chart are used somewhat interchangeably to describe the systematic documentation of a single patient's medical history and care across time within one particular health care provider's jurisdiction.
relational database|Introduction|A relational database is a (most commonly digital) database  based on the relational model of data, as proposed by E. F. Codd in 1970.
potential game|Introduction|In game theory, a game is said to be a potential game if the incentive of all players to change their strategy can be expressed using a single global function called the potential function.
parameter learning|Introduction|In machine learning, a hyperparameter is a parameter whose value is used to control the learning process.
random subspace|Introduction|In machine learning the random subspace method, also called attribute bagging or feature bagging, is an ensemble learning method that attempts to reduce the correlation between estimators in an ensemble by training them on random samples of features instead of the entire feature set.
separation logic|Introduction|In computer science, separation logic is an extension of Hoare logic, a way of reasoning about programs.
rule base|Introduction|In computer science, a rule-based system is used to store and manipulate knowledge to interpret information in a useful way.
multiple robot|Introduction|The robots exclusion standard, also known as the robots exclusion protocol or simply robots.txt, is a standard used by websites to communicate with web crawlers and other web robots.
facial feature point|Introduction|A facial recognition system is a technology capable of matching a human face from a digital image or a video frame against a database of faces, typically employed to authenticate users through ID verification services, works by pinpointing and measuring facial features from a given image.Development began on similar systems in the 1960s, beginning as a form of computer application.
semantic distance|Introduction|Semantic similarity is a metric defined over a set of documents or terms, where the idea of distance between items is based on the likeness of their meaning or semantic content as opposed to lexicographical similarity.
handwriting recognition|Introduction|Handwriting recognition (HWR), also known as handwritten text recognition (HTR), is the ability of a computer to receive and interpret intelligible handwritten input from sources such as paper documents, photographs, touch-screens and other devices.
web ontology language|Introduction|The Web Ontology Language (OWL) is a family of knowledge representation languages for authoring ontologies.
machining feature|Introduction|In machine learning and pattern recognition, a feature is an individual measurable property or characteristic of a phenomenon.
pneumatic drive|Introduction|Pneumatic tubes (or capsule pipelines, also known as pneumatic tube transport or PTT) are systems that propel cylindrical containers through networks of tubes by compressed air or by partial vacuum.
sign language recognition|Introduction|Sign Language Recognition (shortened generally as SLR) is a computational task that involves recognizing actions from sign languages.
scatter search|Introduction|A scatter plot (also called a scatterplot, scatter graph, scatter chart, scattergram, or scatter diagram) is a type of plot or mathematical diagram using Cartesian coordinates to display values for typically two variables for a set of data.
word image|Introduction|An image (from ) is an artifact, such as a photograph or other two-dimensional picture, that resembles a subject—usually a physical object—and thus provides a depiction of it.
pareto dominance|Introduction|Pareto efficiency or Pareto optimality is a situation where no individual or preference criterion can be made better off without making at least one individual or preference criterion worse off.
smart city|Introduction|A smart city is a technologically modern urban area that uses different types of electronic methods and sensors to collect specific data.
manifold learning|Introduction|High-dimensional data, meaning data that requires more than two or three dimensions to represent, can be  difficult to interpret.
home automation system|Introduction|Home automation or domotics is building automation for a home, called a smart home or smart house.
proof search|Introduction|Proof-number search (short: PN search) is a game tree search algorithm invented by Victor Allis, with applications mostly in endgame solvers, but also for sub-goals during games.
probabilistic modeling|Introduction|A graphical model or probabilistic graphical model (PGM) or structured probabilistic model is a probabilistic model for which a graph expresses the conditional dependence structure between random variables.
text entry|Introduction|A text box (input box), text field or text entry box is a control element of a graphical user interface, that should enable the user to input text information to be used by a program.Human Interface Guidelines recommend a single-line text box when only one line of input is required, and a multi-line text box only if more than one line of input may be required.
positive region|Introduction|In semiconductor physics, the depletion region, also called depletion layer, depletion zone, junction region, space charge region or space charge layer, is an insulating region within a conductive, doped semiconductor material where the mobile charge carriers have been diffused away, or have been forced away by an electric field.
ambient intelligence|Introduction|In computing, ambient intelligence (AmI) refers to electronic environments that are sensitive and responsive to the presence of people.
smart energy|Introduction|A smart grid is an electrical grid which includes a variety of operation and energy measures including: Advanced metering infrastructure (of which smart meters are a generic name for any utility side device even if it is more capable e.g.
head pose|Introduction|Non-avian dinosaur and bird fossils are frequently found in a characteristic posture consisting of head thrown back, tail extended, and mouth wide open.
robot learning|Introduction|Robot learning is a research field at the intersection of machine learning and robotics.
feedforward neural network|Introduction|A feedforward neural network (FNN) is an artificial neural network wherein connections between the nodes do not form a cycle.
bayesian approach|Introduction|Bayesian statistics is a theory in the field of statistics based on the Bayesian interpretation of probability where probability expresses a degree of belief in an event.
complex activity|Introduction|The Student Activity Complex is a soccer, track and field and football stadium and performing arts auditorium in Laredo, Texas owned by the United Independent School District.
bayesian estimator|Introduction|In estimation theory and decision theory, a Bayes estimator or a Bayes action is an estimator or decision rule that minimizes the posterior expected value of a loss function (i.e., the posterior expected loss).
visual slam|Introduction|Simultaneous localization and mapping (SLAM) is the computational problem of constructing or updating a map of an unknown environment while simultaneously keeping track of an agent's location within it.
cognitive modeling|Introduction|A cognitive model is an approximation of one or more cognitive processes in humans or other animals for the purposes of comprehension and prediction.
generative adversarial network|Introduction|In 1983, the journal Artificial Networks introduced the concept of adversarial networks to describe situations in which two or more competing entities cooperate to achieve a common goal.
question-answering dataset|Introduction|Question answering (QA) is a computer science discipline within the fields of information retrieval and natural language processing (NLP), which is concerned with building systems that automatically answer questions posed by humans in a natural language.
shape retrieval|Introduction|A shape or figure is a graphical representation of an object or its external boundary, outline, or external surface, as opposed to other properties such as color, texture, or material type.
bayesian network|Introduction|A Bayesian network (also known as a Bayes network, Bayes net, belief network, or decision network) is a probabilistic graphical model that represents a set of variables and their conditional dependencies via a directed acyclic graph (DAG).
cellular automaton|Introduction|A cellular automaton (pl.
background subtraction method|Introduction|Foreground detection is one of the major tasks in the field of computer vision and image processing whose aim is to detect changes in image sequences.
distributed parameter system|Introduction|Distributed computing is a field of computer science that studies distributed systems.
hoare logic|Introduction|Hoare logic (also known as Floyd–Hoare logic or Hoare rules) is a formal system with a set of logical rules for reasoning rigorously about the correctness of computer programs.
home automation|Introduction|Home automation or domotics is building automation for a home, called a smart home or smart house.
knowledge management|Introduction|Knowledge management (KM) is the collection of methods relating to creating, sharing, using and managing the knowledge and information of an organization.
object detection algorithm|Introduction|Object detection is a computer technology related to computer vision and image processing that deals with detecting instances of semantic objects of a certain class (such as humans, buildings, or cars) in digital images and videos.
intrinsic dimension|Introduction|The intrinsic dimension for a data set can be thought of as the number of variables needed in a minimal representation of the data.
memetic|Introduction|Mimesis (; Ancient Greek: μίμησις, mīmēsis) is a term used in literary criticism and philosophy that carries a wide range of meanings, including imitatio, imitation, nonsensuous similarity, receptivity, representation, mimicry, the act of expression, the act of resembling, and the presentation of the self.The original Ancient Greek term mīmēsis (μίμησις) derives from mīmeisthai (μιμεῖσθαι, 'to imitate'), itself coming from mimos (μῖμος, 'imitator, actor').
content provider|Introduction|A value-added service (VAS) is a popular telecommunications industry term for non-core services, or, in short, all services beyond standard voice calls and fax transmissions.
backstepping control|Introduction|In control theory, backstepping is a technique developed circa 1990 by Petar V. Kokotovic and others for designing stabilizing controls for a special class of nonlinear dynamical systems.
document image analysis|Introduction|In computer vision or natural language processing, document layout analysis is the process of identifying and categorizing the regions of interest in the scanned image of a text document.
syntactic pattern recognition|Introduction|Syntactic pattern recognition or structural pattern recognition is a form of pattern recognition, in which each object can be represented by a variable-cardinality set of symbolic, nominal features.
facial recognition system|Introduction|A facial recognition system is a technology capable of matching a human face from a digital image or a video frame against a database of faces, typically employed to authenticate users through ID verification services, works by pinpointing and measuring facial features from a given image.Development began on similar systems in the 1960s, beginning as a form of computer application.
cognitive system|Introduction|Artificial intelligence (AI) is intelligence demonstrated by machines, as opposed to the natural intelligence displayed by animals including humans.
sat solver|Introduction|In computer science and formal methods, a SAT solver is a computer program which aims to solve the Boolean satisfiability problem.
payoff function|Introduction|In game theory, normal form is a description of a game.
pulse amplitude modulation|Introduction|Pulse-amplitude modulation (PAM) is a form of signal modulation where the message information is encoded in the amplitude of a series of signal pulses.
robotic swarm|Introduction|Swarm robotics is an approach to the coordination of multiple robots as a system which consist of large numbers of mostly simple physical robots.
text data|Introduction|In linguistics, a corpus (plural corpora) or text corpus is a language resource consisting of a large and structured set of texts (nowadays usually electronically stored and processed).
expert knowledge|Introduction|An expert is somebody who has a broad and deep understanding and competence in terms of knowledge, skill and experience through practice and education in a particular field.
organizational learning|Introduction|Organizational learning is the process of creating, retaining, and transferring knowledge within an organization.
zero moment point|Introduction|Zero moment point is a concept related with dynamics and control of legged locomotion, e.g., for humanoid or quadrupedal robots.
facial image|Introduction|A facial recognition system is a technology capable of matching a human face from a digital image or a video frame against a database of faces, typically employed to authenticate users through ID verification services, works by pinpointing and measuring facial features from a given image.Development began on similar systems in the 1960s, beginning as a form of computer application.
video browsing|Introduction|Video browsing, also known as exploratory video search, is the interactive process of skimming through video content in order to satisfy some information need or to interactively check if the video content is relevant.
individual classifier|Introduction|The modern Chinese varieties make frequent use of what are called classifiers or measure words.
program verification|Introduction|In the context of hardware and software systems, formal verification is the act of proving or disproving the correctness of intended algorithms underlying a system with respect to a certain formal specification or property, using formal methods of mathematics.Formal verification can be helpful in proving the correctness of systems such as: cryptographic protocols, combinational circuits, digital circuits with internal memory, and software expressed as source code.
multi agent system (mas)|Introduction|A multi-agent system (MAS or "self-organized system") is a computerized system composed of multiple interacting intelligent agents.
multirobots|Introduction|Monica Anderson is an American computer scientist who is an Associate Professor of Computer Science at the University of Alabama.
emotional expression|Introduction|An emotional expression is a behavior that communicates an emotional state or attitude.
analytic network process|Introduction|The analytic network process (ANP) is a more general form of the analytic hierarchy process (AHP) used in multi-criteria decision analysis.
optimal mechanism|Introduction|A Bayesian-optimal mechanism (BOM) is a mechanism in which the designer does not know the valuations of the agents for whom the mechanism is designed, but he knows that they are random variables and he knows the probability distribution of these variables.
convolutional neural network|Introduction|In deep learning, a convolutional neural network (CNN, or ConvNet) is a class of artificial neural network (ANN), most commonly applied to analyze visual imagery.
delayed neural network|Introduction|Time delay neural network (TDNN) is a multilayer artificial neural network architecture whose purpose is to 1) classify patterns with shift-invariance, and 2) model context at each layer of the network.
binarizations|Introduction|Prolog is a logic programming language associated with artificial intelligence and computational linguistics.Prolog has its roots in first-order logic, a formal logic, and unlike many other programming languages, Prolog is intended primarily as a declarative programming language: the program logic is expressed in terms of relations, represented as facts and rules.
image retrieval system|Introduction|An image retrieval system is a computer system used for browsing, searching and retrieving images from a large database of digital images.
region of interest|Introduction|A region of interest (often abbreviated ROI), are samples within a data set identified for a particular purpose.
recurrent neural network (rnn)|Introduction|A recurrent neural network (RNN) is a class of artificial neural networks where connections between nodes can create a cycle, allowing output from some nodes to affect subsequent input to the same nodes.
clustering quality|Introduction|k-means clustering is a method of vector quantization, originally from signal processing, that aims to partition n observations into k clusters in which each observation belongs to the cluster with the nearest mean (cluster centers or cluster centroid), serving as a prototype of the cluster.
dynamic spectrum sharing|Introduction|5G NR (New Radio) is a new radio access technology (RAT) developed by 3GPP for the 5G (fifth generation) mobile network.
forecasting method|Introduction|Forecasting is the process of making predictions based on past and present data.
camera pose estimation|Introduction|3D pose estimation is a process of predicting the transformation of an object from a user-defined reference pose, given an image or a 3D scan.
multilayer perceptrons|Introduction|A multilayer perceptron (MLP) is a fully connected class of feedforward artificial neural network (ANN).
statistical language model|Introduction|A language model is a probability distribution over sequences of words.
differential evolution|Introduction|In evolutionary computation, differential evolution (DE) is a method that optimizes a problem by iteratively trying to improve a candidate solution with regard to a given measure of quality.
group decision-making|Introduction|Group decision-making (also known as collaborative decision-making or collective decision-making) is a situation faced when individuals collectively make a choice from the alternatives before them.
face detection|Introduction|Face detection is a computer technology being used in a variety of applications that identifies human faces in digital images.
intelligent control|Introduction|Intelligent control is a class of control techniques that use various artificial intelligence computing approaches like neural networks, Bayesian probability, fuzzy logic, machine learning, reinforcement learning, evolutionary computation and genetic algorithms.
natural language generation|Introduction|Natural language generation (NLG) is a software process that produces natural language output.
numerical optimization|Introduction|Mathematical optimization (alternatively spelled optimisation) or mathematical programming is the selection of a best element, with regard to some criterion, from some set of available alternatives.
human robot interaction|Introduction|Human–robot interaction is the study of interactions between humans and robots.
probabilistic graphical model|Introduction|A graphical model or probabilistic graphical model (PGM) or structured probabilistic model is a probabilistic model for which a graph expresses the conditional dependence structure between random variables.
naive bayes|Introduction|In statistics, naive Bayes classifiers are a family of simple "probabilistic classifiers" based on applying Bayes' theorem with strong (naive) independence assumptions between the features (see Bayes classifier).
delay dependent|Introduction|In signal processing, group delay and phase delay are delay times experienced by a signal's various frequency components when the signal passes through a system that is linear time-invariant (LTI), such as a microphone, coaxial cable, amplifier, loudspeaker, telecommunications system or ethernet cable.
loopy belief propagation|Introduction|Belief propagation, also known as sum–product message passing, is a message-passing algorithm for performing inference on graphical models, such as Bayesian networks and Markov random fields.
action language|Introduction|In computer science, an action language is a language for specifying state transition systems, and is commonly used to create formal models of the effects of actions on the world.
statistical model|Introduction|A statistical model is a mathematical model that embodies a set of statistical assumptions concerning the generation of sample data (and similar data from a larger population).
spatial index|Introduction|A spatial database is a general-purpose database (usually a relational database) that has been enhanced to include spatial data that represents objects defined in a geometric space, along with tools for querying and analyzing such data.
scene text|Introduction|Scene text is text that appears in an image captured by a camera in an outdoor environment.
particle swarm optimization technique|Introduction|In computational science, particle swarm optimization (PSO) is a computational method that optimizes a problem by iteratively trying to improve a candidate solution with regard to a given measure of quality.
word segmentation|Introduction|Text segmentation is the process of dividing written text into meaningful units, such as words, sentences, or topics.
evolutionary strategy|Introduction|An evolutionarily stable strategy (ESS) is a strategy (or set of strategies) that is impermeable when adopted by a population in adaptation to a specific environment, that is to say it cannot be displaced by an alternative strategy (or set of strategies) which may be novel or initially rare.
four temperaments|Introduction|The four temperament theory is a proto-psychological theory which suggests that there are four fundamental personality types: sanguine, choleric, melancholic, and phlegmatic.
image annotation|Introduction|Automatic image annotation (also known as automatic image tagging or linguistic indexing) is the process by which a computer system automatically assigns metadata in the form of captioning or keywords to a digital image.
image descriptor|Introduction|In computer vision, visual descriptors or image descriptors are descriptions of the visual features of the contents in images, videos, or algorithms or applications that produce such descriptions.
social cost|Introduction|Social cost in neoclassical economics is the sum of the private costs resulting from a transaction and the costs imposed on the consumers as a consequence of being exposed to the transaction for which they are not compensated or charged.
adaptive boosting|Introduction|AdaBoost, short for Adaptive Boosting, is a statistical classification meta-algorithm formulated by Yoav Freund and Robert Schapire in 1995, who won the 2003 Gödel Prize for their work.
face modeling|Introduction|Computer facial animation is primarily an area of computer graphics that encapsulates methods and techniques for generating and animating images or models of a character face.
forecasting system|Introduction|The Global Forecast System (GFS) is a global numerical weather prediction system containing a global computer model and variational analysis run by the United States' National Weather Service (NWS).
retrieval efficiency|Introduction|Information retrieval (IR) in computing and information science is the process of obtaining information system resources that are relevant to an information need from a collection of those resources.
automatic evaluation|Introduction|Various methods for the evaluation for machine translation have been employed.
hierarchical dirichlet process|Introduction|In statistics and machine learning, the hierarchical Dirichlet process (HDP) is a nonparametric Bayesian approach to clustering grouped data.
radial basis function|Introduction|A radial basis function (RBF) is a real-valued function whose value depends only on the distance between the input and some fixed point, either the origin.
tracking object|Introduction|Multiple object tracking, or MOT, is a versatile experimental paradigm developed by Zenon Pylyshyn for studying sustained visual attention in a dynamic environment in 1988.It was first developed in order to support visual indexing theory (FINST theory).
robot team|Introduction|I'm Not a Robot (Korean: 로봇이 아니야; RR: Robosi Aniya) is a South Korean television series starring Yoo Seung-ho, Chae Soo-bin and Um Ki-joon.
deep belief network|Introduction|In machine learning, a deep belief network (DBN) is a generative graphical model, or alternatively a class of deep neural network, composed of multiple layers of latent variables ("hidden units"), with connections between the layers but not between units within each layer.When trained on a set of examples without supervision, a DBN can learn to probabilistically reconstruct its inputs.
computer keyboard|Introduction|A computer keyboard is a peripheral input device modeled after the typewriter keyboard which uses an arrangement of buttons or keys to act as mechanical levers or electronic switches.
higher order logic|Introduction|In mathematics and logic, a higher-order logic is a form of predicate logic that is distinguished from first-order logic by additional quantifiers and, sometimes, stronger semantics.
text input|Introduction|An input method (or input method editor, commonly abbreviated IME) is an operating system component or program that enables users to generate characters not natively available on their input devices by using sequences of characters (or mouse operations) that are natively available on their input devices.
forecasting performance|Introduction|Forecasting is the process of making predictions based on past and present data.
style sheet|Introduction|Cascading Style Sheets (CSS) is a style sheet language used for describing the presentation of a document written in a markup language such as HTML or XML (including XML dialects such as SVG, MathML or XHTML).
logical database model|Introduction|A database model is a type of data model that determines the logical structure of a database.
text localization|Introduction|In computing, internationalization and localization (American) or internationalisation and localisation (British English), often abbreviated i18n and L10n, are means of adapting computer software to different languages, regional peculiarities and technical requirements of a target locale.
extreme learning machine|Introduction|Extreme learning machines are feedforward neural networks for classification, regression, clustering, sparse approximation, compression and feature learning with a single layer or multiple layers of hidden nodes, where the parameters of hidden nodes (not just the weights connecting inputs to hidden nodes) need not be tuned.
multi-robot team|Introduction|A multi-agent system (MAS or "self-organized system") is a computerized system composed of multiple interacting intelligent agents.
swarm of robot|Introduction|Swarm robotics is an approach to the coordination of multiple robots as a system which consist of large numbers of mostly simple physical robots.
active appearance model|Introduction|An active appearance model (AAM) is a computer vision algorithm for matching a statistical model of object shape and appearance to a new image.
cooperative spectrum sensing|Introduction|A cognitive radio (CR) is a radio that can be programmed and configured dynamically to use the best wireless channels in its vicinity to avoid user interference and congestion.
automatic summarization|Introduction|Automatic summarization is the process of shortening a set of data computationally, to create a subset (a summary) that represents the most important or relevant information within the original content.
handwritten text|Introduction|Handwriting recognition (HWR), also known as handwritten text recognition (HTR), is the ability of a computer to receive and interpret intelligible handwritten input from sources such as paper documents, photographs, touch-screens and other devices.
explicit knowledge|Introduction|Explicit knowledge (also expressive knowledge) is knowledge that can be readily articulated, codified, stored and accessed.
k-means clustering|Introduction|k-means clustering is a method of vector quantization, originally from signal processing, that aims to partition n observations into k clusters in which each observation belongs to the cluster with the nearest mean (cluster centers or cluster centroid), serving as a prototype of the cluster.
knowledge exchange|Introduction|Knowledge transfer refers to sharing or disseminating of knowledge and providing inputs to problem solving.
time series analysis|Introduction|In mathematics, a time series is a series of data points indexed (or listed or graphed) in time order.
bayesian model|Introduction|A Bayesian network (also known as a Bayes network, Bayes net, belief network, or decision network) is a probabilistic graphical model that represents a set of variables and their conditional dependencies via a directed acyclic graph (DAG).
expert system|Introduction|In artificial intelligence, an expert system is a computer system emulating the decision-making ability of a human expert.
kinect|Introduction|Kinect is a line of motion sensing input devices produced by Microsoft and first released in 2010.
topic model|Introduction|In statistics and natural language processing, a topic model is a type of statistical model for discovering the abstract "topics" that occur in a collection of documents.
neuro-fuzzy model|Introduction|In the field of artificial intelligence, neuro-fuzzy refers to combinations of artificial neural networks and fuzzy logic.
image identification|Introduction|Computer vision is an interdisciplinary scientific field that deals with how computers can gain high-level understanding from digital images or videos.
knowledge representation and reasoning|Introduction|Knowledge representation and reasoning (KRR, KR&R, KR²) is the field of artificial intelligence (AI) dedicated to representing information about the world in a form that a computer system can use to solve complex tasks such as diagnosing a medical condition or having a dialog in a natural language.
ocr|Introduction|The polymerase chain reaction (PCR) is a method widely used to rapidly make millions to billions of copies (complete or partial) of a specific DNA sample, allowing scientists to take a very small sample of DNA and amplify it (or a part of it) to a large enough amount to study in detail.
color image segmentation|Introduction|In digital image processing and computer vision, image segmentation is the process of partitioning a digital image into multiple image segments, also known as image regions or image objects (sets of pixels).
relational database management system|Introduction|A relational database is a (most commonly digital) database  based on the relational model of data, as proposed by E. F. Codd in 1970.
automatic vehicle identification|Introduction|Automatic number-plate recognition (ANPR; see also other names below) is a technology that uses optical character recognition on images to read vehicle registration plates to create vehicle location data.
decision tree induction|Introduction|Decision Tree Learning is a supervised learning approach used in statistics, data mining and machine learning.
two-dimensional cellular automaton|Introduction|A cellular automaton (pl.
similar image|Introduction|Content-based image retrieval, also known as query by image content (QBIC) and content-based visual information retrieval (CBVIR), is the application of computer vision techniques to the image retrieval problem, that is, the problem of searching for digital images in large databases (see this survey for a scientific overview of the CBIR field).
face detection algorithm|Introduction|Face detection is a computer technology being used in a variety of applications that identifies human faces in digital images.
underwater construction|Introduction|Underwater construction is industrial construction in an underwater environment.
argumentation semantics|Introduction|Argumentation theory, or argumentation, is the interdisciplinary study of how conclusions can be supported or undermined by premises through logical reasoning.
mathematical logic|Introduction|Mathematical logic is the study of formal logic within mathematics.
knowledge management system|Introduction|Knowledge management (KM) is the collection of methods relating to creating, sharing, using and managing the knowledge and information of an organization.
document image|Introduction|Document imaging is an information technology category for systems capable of replicating documents commonly used in business.
name recognition|Introduction|In politics, name recognition is the ability a voter has to identify a candidate's name due to a certain amount of previous exposure through various campaigning methods.
scale factor|Introduction|In affine geometry, uniform scaling (or isotropic scaling) is a linear transformation that enlarges (increases) or shrinks (diminishes) objects by a scale factor that is the same in all directions.
pneumatic artificial muscle|Introduction|Pneumatic artificial muscles (PAMs) are contractile or extensional devices operated by pressurized air filling a pneumatic bladder.
program analysis|Introduction|In computer science, program analysis is the process of automatically analyzing the behavior of computer programs regarding a property such as correctness, robustness, safety and liveness.
sentiment classification|Introduction|Sentiment analysis (also known as opinion mining or emotion AI) is the use of natural language processing, text analysis, computational linguistics, and biometrics to systematically identify, extract, quantify, and study affective states and subjective information.
facial expression|Introduction|A facial expression is one or more motions or positions of the muscles beneath the skin of the face.
memetic algorithm|Introduction|A memetic algorithm (MA) in computer science and operations research, is an extension of the traditional genetic algorithm.
ion implantation|Introduction|Ion implantation is a low-temperature process by which ions of one element are accelerated into a solid target, thereby changing the physical, chemical, or electrical properties of the target.
bayesian classifier|Introduction|In statistics, naive Bayes classifiers are a family of simple "probabilistic classifiers" based on applying Bayes' theorem with strong (naive) independence assumptions between the features (see Bayes classifier).
global optimal solution|Introduction|A greedy algorithm is any algorithm that follows the problem-solving heuristic of making the locally optimal choice at each stage.
knowledge representation|Introduction|Knowledge representation and reasoning (KRR, KR&R, KR²) is the field of artificial intelligence (AI) dedicated to representing information about the world in a form that a computer system can use to solve complex tasks such as diagnosing a medical condition or having a dialog in a natural language.
facial expression recognition|Introduction|A facial expression is one or more motions or positions of the muscles beneath the skin of the face.
principle component|Introduction|The principal components of a collection of points in a real coordinate space are a sequence of unit vectors, where the vector is the direction of a line that best fits the data while being orthogonal to the first vectors.
imperative program|Introduction|In computer science, imperative programming is a  programming paradigm of software that uses statements that change a program's state.
motion generation|Introduction|A film – also called a movie, motion picture, moving picture, picture or photoplay – is a work of visual art that simulates experiences and otherwise communicates ideas, stories, perceptions, feelings, beauty, or atmosphere through the use of moving images.
web image|Introduction|An image (from ) is an artifact, such as a photograph or other two-dimensional picture, that resembles a subject—usually a physical object—and thus provides a depiction of it.
hand image|Introduction|An image scanner—often abbreviated to just scanner—is a device that optically scans images, printed text, handwriting or an object and converts it to a digital image.
kripke model|Introduction|Kripke semantics (also known as relational semantics or frame semantics, and often confused with possible world semantics) is a formal semantics for non-classical logic systems created in the late 1950s and early 1960s by Saul Kripke and André Joyal.
ieee 802.22|Introduction|IEEE 802 is a family of Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers (IEEE) standards for local area networks (LAN), personal area network (PAN), and metropolitan area networks (MAN).
hybrid algorithm|Introduction|A hybrid algorithm is an algorithm that combines two or more other algorithms that solve the same problem, and is mostly used in programming languages like C++, either choosing one (depending on the data), or switching between them over the course of the algorithm.
natural language question|Introduction|Question answering (QA) is a computer science discipline within the fields of information retrieval and natural language processing (NLP), which is concerned with building systems that automatically answer questions posed by humans in a natural language.
mixed strategy|Introduction|In game theory, a player's strategy is any of the options which they choose in a setting where the outcome depends not only on their own actions but on the actions of others.
propositional calculus|Introduction|Propositional calculus is a branch of logic.
genetic algorithm|Introduction|In computer science and operations research, a genetic algorithm (GA) is a metaheuristic inspired by the process of natural selection that belongs to the larger class of evolutionary algorithms (EA).
case-based reasoning (cbr)|Introduction|In artificial intelligence and philosophy, case-based reasoning (CBR), broadly construed, is the process of solving new problems based on the solutions of similar past problems.In everyday life, an auto mechanic who fixes an engine by recalling another car that exhibited similar symptoms is using case-based reasoning.
complexity result|Introduction|Complexity characterises the behaviour of a system or model whose components interact in multiple ways and follow local rules, leading to nonlinearity, randomness, collective dynamics, hierarchy, and emergence.The term is generally used to characterize something with many parts where those parts interact with each other in multiple ways, culminating in a higher order of emergence greater than the sum of its parts.
radio spectrum|Introduction|The radio spectrum is the part of the electromagnetic spectrum with frequencies from 0 Hz to 3,000 GHz (3 THz).
classifier ensemble|Introduction|In statistics and machine learning, ensemble methods use multiple learning algorithms to obtain better predictive performance than could be obtained from any of the constituent learning algorithms alone.
document analysis|Introduction|Documentary analysis (document analysis) is a type of qualitative research in which documents are reviewed by the analyst to assess an appraisal theme.
visual similarity|Introduction|The Jaccard index, also known as the Jaccard similarity coefficient, is a statistic used for gauging the similarity and diversity of sample sets.
centralized scheduling|Introduction|Round-robin (RR) is one of the algorithms employed by process and network schedulers in computing.
social robot|Introduction|A social robot is an autonomous robot that interacts and communicates with humans or other autonomous physical agents by following social behaviors and rules attached to its role.
Training, validation, and test sets|Introduction|In machine learning, a common task is the study and construction of algorithms that can learn from and make predictions on data.
text summarization|Introduction|Automatic summarization is the process of shortening a set of data computationally, to create a subset (a summary) that represents the most important or relevant information within the original content.
decision tree learning|Introduction|Decision Tree Learning is a supervised learning approach used in statistics, data mining and machine learning.
boolean formula|Introduction|Any kind of logic, function, expression, or theory based on the work of George Boole is considered Boolean.
mobile manipulator|Introduction|A mobile manipulator is a robot system built from a robotic manipulator arm mounted on a mobile platform.
self-adaptive software|Introduction|In software development, agile (sometimes written Agile) practices include requirements discovery and solutions improvement through the collaborative effort of self-organizing and cross-functional teams with their customer(s)/end user(s), adaptive planning, evolutionary development, early delivery, continual improvement, and flexible responses to changes in requirements, capacity, and understanding of the problems to be solved.Popularized in the 2001 Manifesto for Agile Software Development, these values and principles were derived from and underpin a broad range of software development frameworks, including Scrum and Kanban.While there is much anecdotal evidence that adopting agile practices and values improves the effectiveness of software professionals, teams and organizations, the empirical evidence is mixed and hard to find.
multiobjective optimization|Introduction|Multi-objective optimization (also known as multi-objective programming, vector optimization, multicriteria optimization, multiattribute optimization or Pareto optimization) is an area of multiple criteria decision making that is concerned with mathematical optimization problems involving more than one objective function to be optimized simultaneously.
bayesian inference|Introduction|Bayesian inference is a method of statistical inference in which Bayes' theorem is used to update the probability for a hypothesis as more evidence or information becomes available.
cognitive science|Introduction|Cognitive science is the interdisciplinary, scientific study of the mind and its processes with input from linguistics, psychology, neuroscience, philosophy, computer science/artificial intelligence, and anthropology.
communicating sequential processes|Introduction|In computer science, communicating sequential processes (CSP) is a formal language for describing patterns of interaction in concurrent systems.
variable neighborhood search|Introduction|Variable neighborhood search (VNS), proposed by Mladenović & Hansen in 1997, is a metaheuristic method for solving a set of combinatorial optimization and global optimization problems.
robotic hand|Introduction|A robotic arm is a type of mechanical arm, usually programmable, with similar functions to a human arm; the arm may be the sum total of the mechanism or may be part of a more complex robot.
graphical modeling|Introduction|A graphical model or probabilistic graphical model (PGM) or structured probabilistic model is a probabilistic model for which a graph expresses the conditional dependence structure between random variables.
connected component analysis|Introduction|Connected-component labeling (CCL), connected-component analysis (CCA), blob extraction, region labeling, blob discovery, or region extraction is an algorithmic application of graph theory, where subsets of connected components are uniquely labeled based on a given heuristic.
backstepping design|Introduction|In control theory, backstepping is a technique developed circa 1990 by Petar V. Kokotovic and others for designing stabilizing controls for a special class of nonlinear dynamical systems.
text document|Introduction|A text file (sometimes spelled textfile; an old alternative name is flatfile) is a kind of computer file that is structured as a sequence of lines of electronic text.
image feature|Introduction|In computer vision and image processing, a feature is a piece of information about the content of an image; typically about whether a certain region of the image has certain properties.
utility function|Introduction|As a topic of economics, utility is used to model worth or value.
affect recognition|Introduction|Emotion recognition is the process of identifying human emotion.
constraint logic programming|Introduction|Constraint logic programming is a form of constraint programming, in which logic programming is extended to include concepts from constraint satisfaction.
analytic hierarchy|Introduction|In the theory of decision making, the analytic hierarchy process (AHP), also analytical hierarchy process, is a structured technique for organizing and analyzing complex decisions, based on mathematics and psychology.
cluster number|Introduction|Determining the number of clusters in a data set, a quantity often labelled k as in the k-means algorithm, is a frequent problem in data clustering, and is a distinct issue from the process of actually solving the clustering problem.
logic program|Introduction|Logic programming is a programming paradigm which is largely based on formal logic.
dialogue system|Introduction|A dialogue system, or conversational agent (CA), is a computer system intended to converse with a human.
feature recognition|Introduction|The term "feature" implies different meanings in different engineering disciplines.
chinese character recognition|Introduction|Optical character recognition or optical character reader (OCR) is the electronic or mechanical conversion of images of typed, handwritten or printed text into machine-encoded text, whether from a scanned document, a photo of a document, a scene-photo (for example the text on signs and billboards in a landscape photo) or from subtitle text superimposed on an image (for example: from a television broadcast).Widely used as a form of data entry from printed paper data records – whether passport documents, invoices, bank statements, computerized receipts, business cards, mail, printouts of static-data, or any suitable documentation – it is a common method of digitizing printed texts so that they can be electronically edited, searched, stored more compactly, displayed on-line, and used in machine processes such as cognitive computing, machine translation, (extracted) text-to-speech, key data and text mining.
translation system|Introduction|Machine translation, sometimes referred to by the abbreviation MT (not to be confused with computer-aided translation, machine-aided human translation or interactive translation), is a sub-field of computational linguistics that investigates the use of software to translate text or speech from one language to another.
adaptive network based fuzzy inference system|Introduction|An adaptive neuro-fuzzy inference system or adaptive network-based fuzzy inference system (ANFIS) is a kind of artificial neural network that is based on Takagi–Sugeno fuzzy inference system.
principle component analysis|Introduction|The principal components of a collection of points in a real coordinate space are a sequence of unit vectors, where the i-th vector is the direction of a line that best fits the data while being orthogonal to the first vectors.
informal learning|Introduction|Education is a purposeful activity directed at achieving certain aims, such as transmitting knowledge or fostering skills and character traits.
datalog|Introduction|Datalog is a declarative logic programming language.
binary decision tree|Introduction|In computer science, a binary decision diagram (BDD) or branching program is a data structure that is used to represent a Boolean function.
radio environment|Introduction|Radio Gaga is a comic strip created by the Norwegian humourist "Flis" (Øyvind Sagåsen).The series started in 2001, and is about characters who run a local radio station called Radio Gaga.
game analysis|Introduction|Analysis is the process of breaking a complex topic or substance into smaller parts in order to gain a better understanding of it.
natural deduction|Introduction|In logic and proof theory, natural deduction is a kind of proof calculus in which logical reasoning is expressed by inference rules closely related to the "natural" way of reasoning.
free text|Introduction|In text retrieval, full-text search refers to techniques for searching a single computer-stored document or a collection in a full-text database.
gabor filter bank|Introduction|In image processing, a Gabor filter, named after Dennis Gabor, is a linear filter used for texture analysis, which essentially means that it analyzes whether there is any specific frequency content in the image in specific directions in a localized region around the point or region of analysis.
organizational memory|Introduction|Organizational memory (OM) (sometimes called institutional or corporate memory) is the accumulated body of data, information, and knowledge created in the course of an organization's existence.
supervisory control theory|Introduction|The supervisory control theory (SCT), also known as the Ramadge–Wonham framework (RW framework), is a method for automatically synthesizing supervisors that restrict the behavior of a plant such that as much as possible of the given specifications are fulfilled.
natural scene image|Introduction|An image (from ) is an artifact, such as a photograph or other two-dimensional picture, that resembles a subject—usually a physical object—and thus provides a depiction of it.
adaptive backstepping|Introduction|In control theory, backstepping is a technique developed circa 1990 by Petar V. Kokotovic and others for designing stabilizing controls for a special class of nonlinear dynamical systems.
human walking|Introduction|The preferred walking speed is the speed at which humans or animals choose to walk.
n-gram language model|Introduction|In the fields of computational linguistics and probability, an n-gram (sometimes also called Q-gram) is a contiguous sequence of n items from a given sample of text or speech.
water craft|Introduction|Watercraft, also known as water vessels or waterborne vessels, are vehicles used in and on water, including boats, ships, hovercraft, and submarines.
multiple classifier system|Introduction|In statistics and machine learning, ensemble methods use multiple learning algorithms to obtain better predictive performance than could be obtained from any of the constituent learning algorithms alone.
document representation|Introduction|A document is a written, drawn, presented, or memorialized representation of thought, often the manifestation of non-fictional, as well as fictional, content.
formal proof|Introduction|In logic and mathematics, a formal proof or derivation is a finite sequence of sentences (called well-formed formulas in the case of a formal language), each of which is an axiom, an assumption, or follows from the preceding sentences in the sequence by a rule of inference.
unit selection|Introduction|A unit of selection is a biological entity within the hierarchy of biological organization (for example, an entity such as: a self-replicating molecule, a gene, a cell, an organism, a group, or a  species) that is subject to natural selection.
evolutionarily stable strategy|Introduction|An evolutionarily stable strategy (ESS) is a strategy (or set of strategies) that is impermeable when adopted by a population in adaptation to a specific environment, that is to say it cannot be displaced by an alternative strategy (or set of strategies) which may be novel or initially rare.
microsoft kinect|Introduction|Kinect is a line of motion sensing input devices produced by Microsoft and first released in 2010.
type inference|Introduction|Type inference refers to the automatic detection of the type of an expression in a formal language.
decision table|Introduction|Decision tables are a concise visual representation for specifying which actions to perform depending on given conditions.
cognitive process|Introduction|Cognition ( (listen)) refers to "the mental action or process of acquiring knowledge and understanding through thought, experience, and the senses".
genetic-fuzzy|Introduction|In computer science and operations research, Genetic fuzzy systems are fuzzy systems constructed by using genetic algorithms or genetic programming, which mimic the process of natural evolution, to identify its structure and parameter.
intelligent computing|Introduction|Social computing is an area of computer science that is concerned with the intersection of social behavior and computational systems.
decision rule|Introduction|In decision theory, a decision rule is a function which maps an observation to an appropriate action.
humanoid robot|Introduction|A humanoid robot is a robot resembling the human body in shape.
game-theoretic|Introduction|Game theory is the study of mathematical models of strategic interactions among rational agents.
robot motion|Introduction|Motion planning, also path planning (also known as the navigation problem or the piano mover's problem) is a computational problem to find a sequence of valid configurations that moves the object from the source to destination.
named entity recognition|Introduction|Named-entity recognition (NER) (also known as (named) entity identification, entity chunking, and entity extraction) is a subtask of information extraction that seeks to locate and classify named entities mentioned in unstructured text into pre-defined categories such as person names, organizations, locations, medical codes, time expressions, quantities, monetary values, percentages, etc.
simple genetic algorithm|Introduction|In computer science and operations research, a genetic algorithm (GA) is a metaheuristic inspired by the process of natural selection that belongs to the larger class of evolutionary algorithms (EA).
dominance-based rough set approach|Introduction|The dominance-based rough set approach (DRSA) is an extension of rough set theory for multi-criteria decision analysis (MCDA), introduced by Greco, Matarazzo and Słowiński.
non-cooperative game theory|Introduction|In game theory, a non-cooperative game is a game with competition between individual players, as opposed to cooperative games, and in which alliances can only operate if self-enforcing (e.g.
intelligent sensor|Introduction|An intelligent sensor is a sensor that takes some predefined action when it senses the appropriate input (light, heat, sound, motion, touch, etc.).
common-sense reasoning|Introduction|In artificial intelligence (AI), commonsense reasoning is a human-like ability to make presumptions about the type and essence of ordinary situations humans encounter every day.
color feature|Introduction|This is a list of early feature-length color films (including primarily black-and-white films that have one or more color sequences) made up to about 1936, when the Technicolor three-strip process firmly established itself as the major-studio favorite.
information retrieval technology|Introduction|Information retrieval (IR) in computing and information science is the process of obtaining information system resources that are relevant to an information need from a collection of those resources.
exact inference|Introduction|In statistics, an exact (significance) test is a test such that if the null hypothesis is true, then all assumptions made during the derivation of the distribution of the test statistic are met.
sentence extraction|Introduction|Sentence extraction is a technique used for automatic summarization of a text.
extracting information|Introduction|Quantum information is the information of the state of a quantum system.
isomap|Introduction|Isomap is a nonlinear dimensionality reduction method.
object detection|Introduction|Object detection is a computer technology related to computer vision and image processing that deals with detecting instances of semantic objects of a certain class (such as humans, buildings, or cars) in digital images and videos.
non-parametric bayesian|Introduction|Nonparametric statistics is the branch of statistics that is not based solely on parametrized families of probability distributions (common examples of parameters are the mean and variance).
stimulus–response model|Introduction|The stimulus–response model is a characterization of a statistical unit (such as a neuron).
hybrid genetic algorithm|Introduction|A memetic algorithm (MA) in computer science and operations research, is an extension of the traditional genetic algorithm.
mobile base|Introduction|Mobile offshore base (MOB), sometimes called a joint mobile offshore base (JMOB), is a concept for supporting military operations beyond the home shores, where conventional land bases are not available, by deploying on the high seas or in coastal waters, in-theater multipurpose floating base assembled from individual platforms.
linear temporal logic|Introduction|In logic, linear temporal logic or linear-time temporal logic (LTL) is a modal temporal logic with modalities referring to time.
walking pattern|Introduction|Toe walking refers to a condition where a person walks on their toes without putting much or any weight on the heel or any other part of the foot.
target recognition|Introduction|Automatic target recognition (ATR) is the ability for an algorithm or device to recognize targets or other objects based on data obtained from sensors.
grey theory|Introduction|Gray goo (also spelled as grey goo) is a hypothetical global catastrophic scenario involving molecular nanotechnology in which out-of-control self-replicating machines consume all biomass on Earth while building more of themselves, a scenario that has been called ecophagy (the literal consumption of the ecosystem).
automatic translation|Introduction|Machine translation, sometimes referred to by the abbreviation MT (not to be confused with computer-aided translation, machine-aided human translation or interactive translation), is a sub-field of computational linguistics that investigates the use of software to translate text or speech from one language to another.
statistical machine translation|Introduction|Statistical machine translation (SMT) is a machine translation paradigm where translations are generated on the basis of statistical models whose parameters are derived from the analysis of bilingual text corpora.
multi-robot coordination|Introduction|A multi-agent system (MAS or "self-organized system") is a computerized system composed of multiple interacting intelligent agents.
genetic network programming|Introduction|Cartesian genetic programming is a form of genetic programming that uses a graph representation to encode computer programs.
k-nn classifier|Introduction|In statistics, the k-nearest neighbors algorithm (k-NN) is a non-parametric supervised learning method first developed by Evelyn Fix and Joseph Hodges in 1951, and later expanded by Thomas Cover.
image rendering|Introduction|Rendering or image synthesis is the process of generating a photorealistic or non-photorealistic image from a 2D or 3D model by means of a computer program.
pattern recognition system|Introduction|Pattern recognition is the automated recognition of patterns and regularities in data.
coalition structure|Introduction|A coalition is a group formed when two or more people, factions, states, political parties, militaries, or other parties agree to work together, often temporarily, in a partnership to achieve a common goal.
detection of moving object|Introduction|Object detection is a computer technology related to computer vision and image processing that deals with detecting instances of semantic objects of a certain class (such as humans, buildings, or cars) in digital images and videos.
lexical semantics|Introduction|Lexical semantics (also known as lexicosemantics), as a subfield of linguistic semantics, is the study of word meanings.
wireless microphone|Introduction|A wireless microphone, or cordless microphone, is a microphone without a physical cable connecting it directly to the sound recording or amplifying equipment with which it is associated.
information extraction|Introduction|Information extraction (IE) is the task of automatically extracting structured information from unstructured and/or semi-structured machine-readable documents and other electronically represented sources.
fuzzy inference system (fis)|Introduction|Fuzzy architectural spatial analysis (FASA) (also fuzzy inference system (FIS) based architectural space analysis or fuzzy spatial analysis) is a spatial analysis method of analysing the spatial formation and architectural space intensity within any architectural organization.Fuzzy architectural spatial analysis is used in architecture, interior design, urban planning and similar spatial design fields.
content based retrieval|Introduction|Content-based image retrieval, also known as query by image content (QBIC) and content-based visual information retrieval (CBVIR), is the application of computer vision techniques to the image retrieval problem, that is, the problem of searching for digital images in large databases (see this survey for a scientific overview of the CBIR field).
gated recurrent unit|Introduction|Gated recurrent units (GRUs) are a gating mechanism in recurrent neural networks, introduced in 2014 by Kyunghyun Cho et al.
image indexing|Introduction|Concept-based image indexing, also variably named as "description-based" or "text-based" image indexing/retrieval, refers to retrieval from text-based indexing of images that may employ keywords, subject headings, captions, or natural language text (Chen & Rasmussen, 1999).
description logic|Introduction|Description logics (DL) are a family of formal knowledge representation languages.
false alarm probability|Introduction|In statistics, the false discovery rate (FDR) is a method of conceptualizing the rate of type I errors in null hypothesis testing when conducting multiple comparisons.
subroutine|Introduction|In computer programming, a subroutine is a sequence of program instructions that performs a specific task, packaged as a unit.
real time system|Introduction|Real-time computing (RTC) is the computer science term for hardware and software systems subject to a "real-time constraint", for example from event to system response.
front banner|Introduction|Otog Front Banner (Mongolian script: ᠣᠲᠣᠭ ᠤᠨ ᠡᠮᠦᠨᠡᠳᠦ ᠬᠣᠰᠢᠭᠤ; Chinese: 鄂托克前旗) is a banner of southwestern Inner Mongolia, People's Republic of China, bordering Ningxia to the southwest and Shaanxi province to the southeast.
hand gesture|Introduction|The shocker is a hand gesture with a sexual connotation.
sinology|Introduction|Sinology or Chinese studies, is an academic discipline that focuses on the study of China primarily through Chinese philosophy, language, literature, culture and history and often refers to Western scholarship.
probabilistic inference|Introduction|Probabilistic programming (PP) is a programming paradigm in which probabilistic models are specified and inference for these models is performed automatically.
dimensionality reduction|Introduction|Dimensionality reduction, or dimension reduction, is the transformation of data from a high-dimensional space into a low-dimensional space so that the low-dimensional representation retains some meaningful properties of the original data, ideally close to its intrinsic dimension.
gray-scale image|Introduction|In digital photography, computer-generated imagery, and colorimetry, a grayscale image is one in which the value of each pixel is a single sample representing only an amount of light; that is, it carries only intensity information.
document image processing|Introduction|Document imaging is an information technology category for systems capable of replicating documents commonly used in business.
relational query|Introduction|A relational database is a (most commonly digital) database  based on the relational model of data, as proposed by E. F. Codd in 1970.
MediaWiki wikitext|Introduction|MediaWiki is a free and open-source wiki software.
skew detection|Introduction|In fax systems, skew is the angular deviation of the received frame from rectangularity caused by asynchronism between the scanner and the recorder.
incentive scheme|Introduction|In general, incentives are anything that persuade a person to alter their behaviour.
random projection|Introduction|In mathematics and statistics, random projection is a technique used to reduce the dimensionality of a set of points which lie in Euclidean space.
closed-loop signal|Introduction|A closed-loop transfer function in control theory is a mathematical expression (algorithm) describing the net result of the effects of a closed (feedback) loop on the input signal to the plant under control.
multi-criteria decision making|Introduction|Multiple-criteria decision-making (MCDM) or multiple-criteria decision analysis (MCDA) is a sub-discipline of operations research that explicitly evaluates multiple conflicting criteria in decision making (both in daily life and in settings such as business, government and medicine).
swarm robotics|Introduction|Swarm robotics is an approach to the coordination of multiple robots as a system which consist of large numbers of mostly simple physical robots.
stackelberg equilibrium|Introduction|The Stackelberg leadership model is a strategic game in economics in which the leader firm moves first and then the follower firms move sequentially.
human-action recognition|Introduction|Activity recognition aims to recognize the actions and goals of one or more agents from a series of observations on the agents' actions and the environmental conditions.
cognitive wireless network|Introduction|In communication networks, cognitive network (CN) is a new type of data network that makes use of cutting edge technology from several research areas (i.e.
fitness function|Introduction|A fitness function is a particular type of objective function that is used to summarise, as a single figure of merit, how close a given design solution is to achieving the set aims.
prisoner dilemma|Introduction|The prisoner's dilemma is a standard example of a game analyzed in game theory that shows why two completely rational individuals might not cooperate, even if it appears that it is in their best interests to do so.
medical computing|Introduction|Medical image computing (MIC) is an interdisciplinary field at the intersection of computer science, information engineering, electrical engineering, physics, mathematics and medicine.
text processing|Introduction|In computing, the term text processing refers to the theory and practice of automating the creation or manipulation of electronic text.
decision support technique|Introduction|A decision support system (DSS) is an information system that supports business or organizational decision-making activities.
linear logic|Introduction|Linear logic is a substructural logic proposed by Jean-Yves Girard as a refinement of classical and intuitionistic logic, joining the dualities of the former with many of the constructive properties of the latter.
model-checking technique|Introduction|In computer science, model checking or property checking is a method for checking whether a finite-state model of a system meets a given specification (also known as correctness).
illumination variation|Introduction|Extreme ultraviolet lithography (also known as EUV or EUVL) is an optical lithography technology used in steppers, machines that make integrated circuits (ICs) for computers and other electronic devices.
inverted pendulum model|Introduction|An inverted pendulum is a pendulum that has its center of mass above its pivot point.
activity recognition|Introduction|Activity recognition aims to recognize the actions and goals of one or more agents from a series of observations on the agents' actions and the environmental conditions.
bayesian classification|Introduction|In statistics, naive Bayes classifiers are a family of simple "probabilistic classifiers" based on applying Bayes' theorem with strong (naive) independence assumptions between the features (see Bayes classifier).
intelligent tutoring|Introduction|An intelligent tutoring system (ITS)  is a computer system that aims to provide immediate and customized instruction or feedback to learners, usually without requiring intervention from a human teacher.
linear genetic programming|Introduction|"Linear genetic programming" is unrelated to "linear programming".Linear genetic programming (LGP) is a particular subset of genetic programming wherein computer programs in a population are represented as a sequence of instructions from imperative programming language or machine language.
wideband spectrum|Introduction|Ultra-wideband (UWB, ultra wideband, ultra-wide band and ultraband) is a radio technology that can use a very low energy level for short-range, high-bandwidth communications over a large portion of the radio spectrum.
ontology|Introduction|In book publishing, an anthology is a collection of literary works chosen by the compiler; it may be a collection of plays, poems, short stories, songs or excerpts by different authors.In genre fiction, the term anthology typically categorizes collections of shorter works, such as short stories and short novels, by different authors, each featuring unrelated casts of characters and settings, and usually collected into a single volume for publication.
group support system|Introduction|A decision support system (DSS) is an information system that supports business or organizational decision-making activities.
psychology|Introduction|Psychology is the scientific study of mind and behavior.
frontal face|Introduction|ISO/IEC 19794 Information technology — Biometric data interchange formats — Part 5: Face image data, or ISO/IEC 19794-5 for short, is the fifth of 8 parts of the ISO/IEC standard ISO/IEC 19794, published in 2005, which describes interchange formats for several types of biometric data.
logic programming|Introduction|Logic programming is a programming paradigm which is largely based on formal logic.
stackelberg game|Introduction|The Stackelberg leadership model is a strategic game in economics in which the leader firm moves first and then the follower firms move sequentially.
human emotion|Introduction|Emotions are mental states brought on by neurophysiological changes, variously associated with thoughts, feelings, behavioural responses, and a degree of pleasure or displeasure.
satisfiability modulo theory|Introduction|In computer science and mathematical logic, satisfiability modulo theories (SMT) is the problem of determining whether a mathematical formula is satisfiable.
mobile interaction|Introduction|Mobile interaction is the study of interaction between mobile users and computers.
hand-gesture recognition|Introduction|Gesture recognition is a topic in computer science and language technology with the goal of interpreting human gestures via mathematical algorithms.
relevance feedback|Introduction|Relevance feedback is a feature of some information retrieval systems.
Termination analysis|Introduction|In computer science, termination analysis is program analysis which attempts to determine whether the evaluation of a given program halts for each input.
temporal property|Introduction|In logic, linear temporal logic or linear-time temporal logic (LTL) is a modal temporal logic with modalities referring to time.
robot swarm|Introduction|Swarm robotics is an approach to the coordination of multiple robots as a system which consist of large numbers of mostly simple physical robots.
feret database|Introduction|The Facial Recognition Technology (FERET) database is a dataset used for facial recognition system evaluation as part of the Face Recognition Technology (FERET) program.
soft computing method|Introduction|Soft computing is a set of algorithms, including neural networks, fuzzy logic, and evolutionary algorithms.
translation model|Introduction|Neural machine translation (NMT) is an approach to machine translation that uses an artificial neural network to predict the likelihood of a sequence of words, typically modeling entire sentences in a single integrated model.
term frequency|Introduction|In information retrieval, tf–idf (also TF*IDF, TFIDF, TF–IDF, or Tf–idf), short for term frequency–inverse document frequency, is a numerical statistic that is intended to reflect how important a word is to a document in a collection or corpus.
intelligent video surveillance|Introduction|Artificial intelligence for video surveillance utilizes computer software programs that analyze the audio and images from video surveillance cameras in order to recognize humans, vehicles, objects, attributes, and events.
domain knowledge|Introduction|Domain knowledge is knowledge of a specific, specialized discipline or field, in contrast to general (or domain-independent) knowledge.
database theory|Introduction|Database theory encapsulates a broad range of topics related to the study and research of the theoretical realm of databases and database management  systems.
content addressable memory|Introduction|Content-addressable memory (CAM) is a special type of computer memory used in certain very-high-speed searching applications.
ontology language|Introduction|In computer science and information science, an ontology encompasses a representation, formal naming, and definition of the categories, properties, and relations between the concepts, data, and entities that substantiate one, many, or all domains of discourse.
human face detection|Introduction|Face detection is a computer technology being used in a variety of applications that identifies human faces in digital images.
strategic game|Introduction|A strategy game or strategic game is a game (e.g. a board game) in which the players' uncoerced, and often autonomous, decision-making skills have a high significance in determining the outcome.
single image|Introduction|An autostereogram is a single-image stereogram (SIS), designed to create the visual illusion of a three-dimensional (3D) scene from a two-dimensional image.
color interpolation|Introduction|In mathematics, bilinear interpolation is a method for interpolating functions of two variables (e.g., x and y) using repeated linear interpolation.
game model|Introduction|A gacha game (Japanese: ガチャ ゲーム, Hepburn: gacha gēmu) is a video game that implements the gacha (toy vending machine) mechanic.
text mining technique|Introduction|Text mining, also referred to as text data mining, similar to text analytics, is the process of deriving high-quality information from text.
markov logic network|Introduction|A Markov logic network (MLN) is a probabilistic logic which applies the ideas of a Markov network to first-order logic, enabling uncertain inference.
online product|Introduction|In marketing, a product is an object, or system, or service made available for consumer use as of the consumer demand; it is anything that can be offered to a market to satisfy the desire or need of a customer.
answer set programming|Introduction|Answer set programming (ASP) is a form of declarative programming oriented towards difficult (primarily NP-hard) search problems.
64-bit signed integer|Introduction|In computer science, an integer is a datum of integral data type, a data type that represents some range of mathematical integers.
knowledge acquisition|Introduction|Knowledge acquisition is the process used to define the rules and ontologies required for a knowledge-based system.
natural language text|Introduction|Natural language processing (NLP) is a subfield of linguistics, computer science, and artificial intelligence concerned with the interactions between computers and human language, in particular how to program computers to process and analyze large amounts of natural language data.
view-dependent|Introduction|Pratītyasamutpāda (Sanskrit: प्रतीत्यसमुत्पाद, Pāli: paṭiccasamuppāda), commonly translated as dependent origination, or dependent arising, is a key doctrine in Buddhism shared by all schools of Buddhism.
dempster-shafer theory|Introduction|The theory of belief functions, also referred to as evidence theory or Dempster–Shafer theory (DST), is a general framework for reasoning with uncertainty, with understood connections to other frameworks such as probability, possibility and  imprecise probability theories.
graphical model|Introduction|A graphical model or probabilistic graphical model (PGM) or structured probabilistic model is a probabilistic model for which a graph expresses the conditional dependence structure between random variables.
principal-agent theory|Introduction|In political science, supply chain management, and economics, the principal–agent problem, also known as agency dilemma or the agency problem, occurs when one person or entity (the "agent") is able to make decisions and/or take actions on behalf of, or that impact, another person or entity (the "principal").
repeated game|Introduction|In game theory, a repeated game is an extensive form game that consists of a number of repetitions of some base game (called a stage game).
wall climbing robot|Introduction|VertiGo is a remotely controlled wheeled robot that can climb walls by using two 360° tiltable propellers that produce thrust angled both upwards and against the wall surface.
content management system|Introduction|A content management system (CMS) is computer software used to manage the creation and modification of digital content (content management).
deontic logic|Introduction|Deontic logic is the field of philosophical logic that is concerned with obligation, permission, and related concepts.
variational approximation|Introduction|Variational Bayesian methods are a family of techniques for approximating intractable integrals arising in Bayesian inference and machine learning.
reaction wheel|Introduction|A reaction wheel (RW) is used primarily by spacecraft for three-axis attitude control, and does not require rockets or external applicators of torque.
energy detector|Introduction|In experimental and applied particle physics, nuclear physics, and nuclear engineering, a particle detector, also known as a radiation detector, is a device used to detect, track, and/or identify ionizing particles, such as those produced by nuclear decay, cosmic radiation, or reactions in a particle accelerator.
epistemic logic|Introduction|Epistemic modal logic is a subfield of modal logic that is concerned with reasoning about knowledge.
solution concept|Introduction|In game theory, a solution concept is a formal rule for predicting how a game will be played.
facial feature extraction|Introduction|A facial recognition system is a technology capable of matching a human face from a digital image or a video frame against a database of faces, typically employed to authenticate users through ID verification services, works by pinpointing and measuring facial features from a given image.Development began on similar systems in the 1960s, beginning as a form of computer application.
face tracking|Introduction|Facial motion capture is the process of electronically converting the movements of a person's face into a digital database using cameras or laser scanners.
human pose estimation|Introduction|3D pose estimation is a process of predicting the transformation of an object from a user-defined reference pose, given an image or a 3D scan.
datalog program|Introduction|Datalog is a declarative logic programming language.
background subtraction technique|Introduction|Foreground detection is one of the major tasks in the field of computer vision and image processing whose aim is to detect changes in image sequences.
bilingual dictionary|Introduction|A bilingual dictionary or translation dictionary is a specialized dictionary used to translate words or phrases from one language to another.
pso algorithm|Introduction|In computational science, particle swarm optimization (PSO) is a computational method that optimizes a problem by iteratively trying to improve a candidate solution with regard to a given measure of quality.
spoken dialogue|Introduction|Dialogue (sometimes spelled dialog in American English) is a written or spoken conversational exchange between two or more people, and a literary and theatrical form that depicts such an exchange.
color image enhancement|Introduction|Image editing  encompasses the processes of altering images, whether they are digital photographs, traditional photo-chemical photographs, or illustrations.
real time operating system|Introduction|A real-time operating system (RTOS) is an operating system (OS) for real-time applications that processes data and events that have critically defined time constraints.
sketch recognition|Introduction|Sketch recognition is the automated recognition of hand-drawn diagrams by a computer.
adaptive neural control|Introduction|Adaptive control is the control method used by a controller which must adapt to a controlled system with parameters which vary, or are initially uncertain.
hybrid pso|Introduction|In computational science, particle swarm optimization (PSO) is a computational method that optimizes a problem by iteratively trying to improve a candidate solution with regard to a given measure of quality.
dynamic background|Introduction|A wallpaper or background (also known as a screensaver, desktop background, desktop picture or desktop image on computers) is a digital image (photo, drawing etc.) used as a decorative background of a graphical user interface on the screen of a computer, smartphone or other electronic device.
syntax|Introduction|In linguistics, syntax is the study of how words and morphemes combine to form larger units such as phrases and sentences.
boolean algebra|Introduction|In mathematics and mathematical logic, Boolean algebra is the branch of algebra in which the values of the variables are the truth values true and false, usually denoted 1 and 0, respectively.
smart material|Introduction|Smart materials, also called intelligent or responsive materials, are designed materials that have one or more properties that can be significantly changed in a controlled fashion by external stimuli, such as stress, moisture, electric or magnetic fields, light, temperature, pH, or chemical compounds.
8-bit signed integer|Introduction|In computer science, an integer is a datum of integral data type, a data type that represents some range of mathematical integers.
evolutionary stable strategy|Introduction|An evolutionarily stable strategy (ESS) is a strategy (or set of strategies) that is impermeable when adopted by a population in adaptation to a specific environment, that is to say it cannot be displaced by an alternative strategy (or set of strategies) which may be novel or initially rare.
bayes classifier|Introduction|In statistics, naive Bayes classifiers are a family of simple "probabilistic classifiers" based on applying Bayes' theorem with strong (naive) independence assumptions between the features (see Bayes classifier).
intelligent environment|Introduction|Intelligent Environments (IE) are spaces with embedded systems and information and communication technologies creating interactive spaces that bring computation into the physical world and enhance occupants experiences.
bayesian network classifier|Introduction|In statistics, naive Bayes classifiers are a family of simple "probabilistic classifiers" based on applying Bayes' theorem with strong (naive) independence assumptions between the features (see Bayes classifier).
subject heading|Introduction|Medical Subject Headings (MeSH) is a comprehensive controlled vocabulary for the purpose of indexing journal articles and books in the life sciences.
bayesian framework|Introduction|Bayesian inference is a method of statistical inference in which Bayes' theorem is used to update the probability for a hypothesis as more evidence or information becomes available.
pattern recognition|Introduction|Pattern recognition is the automated recognition of patterns and regularities in data.
human face|Introduction|The face is the front of an animal's head that features the eyes, nose, skin and mouth, and through which animals express many of their emotions.
mcmc method|Introduction|In statistics, Markov chain Monte Carlo (MCMC) methods comprise a class of algorithms for sampling from a probability distribution.
multiple classifier|Introduction|In statistics and machine learning, ensemble methods use multiple learning algorithms to obtain better predictive performance than could be obtained from any of the constituent learning algorithms alone.
lexical resource|Introduction|In digital lexicography, natural language processing, and digital humanities, a lexical resource is a language resource consisting of data regarding the lexemes of the lexicon of one or more languages e.g., in the form of a database.
microrobot|Introduction|Microbotics (or microrobotics) is the field of miniature robotics, in particular mobile robots with characteristic dimensions less than 1 mm.
neighborhood graph|Introduction|In computational geometry, the relative neighborhood graph (RNG) is an undirected graph defined on a set of points in the Euclidean plane by connecting two points.
zero-sum game|Introduction|Zero-sum game is a mathematical representation in game theory and economic theory of a situation which involves two sides, where the result is an advantage for one side and an equivalent loss for the other.
visual object tracking|Introduction|Multiple object tracking, or MOT, is a versatile experimental paradigm developed by Zenon Pylyshyn for studying sustained visual attention in a dynamic environment in 1988.It was first developed in order to support visual indexing theory (FINST theory).
propositional logic|Introduction|Propositional calculus is a branch of logic.
argumentation framework|Introduction|In artificial intelligence and related fields, an argumentation framework is a way to deal with contentious information and draw conclusions from it using formalized arguments.
fuzzy expert system|Introduction|A fuzzy control system is a control system based on fuzzy logic—a mathematical system that analyzes analog input values in terms of  logical variables that take on continuous values between 0 and 1, in contrast to classical or digital logic, which operates on discrete values of either 1 or 0 (true or false, respectively).
object location|Introduction|In geography, location or place are used to denote a region (point, line, or area) on Earth's surface or elsewhere.
fuzzy cognitive map|Introduction|A fuzzy cognitive map (FCM) is a cognitive map within which the relations between the elements (e.g.
spectrum sensing|Introduction|A cognitive radio (CR) is a radio that can be programmed and configured dynamically to use the best wireless channels in its vicinity to avoid user interference and congestion.
covariance matrix adaptation|Introduction|Covariance matrix adaptation evolution strategy (CMA-ES) is a particular kind of strategy for numerical optimization.
price of stability|Introduction|In game theory, the price of stability (PoS) of a game is the ratio between the best objective function value of one of its equilibria and that of an optimal outcome.
fisher discriminant analysis|Introduction|Linear discriminant analysis (LDA), normal discriminant analysis (NDA), or discriminant function analysis is a generalization of Fisher's linear discriminant, a method used in statistics and other fields, to find a linear combination of features that characterizes or separates two or more classes of objects or events.
illumination normalization|Introduction|Color normalization is a topic in computer vision concerned with artificial color vision and object recognition.
stochastic game|Introduction|In game theory, a stochastic game (or Markov game), introduced by Lloyd Shapley in the early 1950s, is a repeated game with probabilistic transitions played by one or more players.
relation extraction|Introduction|A relationship extraction task requires the detection and classification of semantic relationship mentions within a set of artifacts, typically from text or XML documents.
character recognition system|Introduction|Optical character recognition or optical character reader (OCR) is the electronic or mechanical conversion of images of typed, handwritten or printed text into machine-encoded text, whether from a scanned document, a photo of a document, a scene-photo (for example the text on signs and billboards in a landscape photo) or from subtitle text superimposed on an image (for example: from a television broadcast).Widely used as a form of data entry from printed paper data records – whether passport documents, invoices, bank statements, computerized receipts, business cards, mail, printouts of static-data, or any suitable documentation – it is a common method of digitizing printed texts so that they can be electronically edited, searched, stored more compactly, displayed on-line, and used in machine processes such as cognitive computing, machine translation, (extracted) text-to-speech, key data and text mining.
hand tracking|Introduction|In the field of gesture recognition and image processing, finger tracking is a high-resolution technique developed in 1969 that is employed to know the consecutive position of the fingers of the user and hence represent objects in 3D.
system theory|Introduction|Systems theory is the interdisciplinary study of systems.
automatic text summarization|Introduction|Automatic summarization is the process of shortening a set of data computationally, to create a subset (a summary) that represents the most important or relevant information within the original content.
knowledge engineer|Introduction|A knowledge engineer is a professional engaged in the science of building advanced logic into computer systems in order to try to simulate human decision-making and high-level cognitive tasks.
dendrograms|Introduction|A dendrogram is a diagram representing a tree.
class information|Introduction|Information is an abstract concept that refers to that which has the power to inform.
word sense|Introduction|In linguistics, a word sense is one of the meanings of a word.
customer review|Introduction|A customer review is an evaluation of a product or service made by someone who has purchased and used, or had experience with, a product or service.
fuzzy clustering analysis|Introduction|Fuzzy clustering (also referred to as soft clustering or soft k-means) is a form of clustering in which each data point can belong to more than one cluster.
approximate inference|Introduction|Approximate inference methods make it possible to learn realistic models from big data by trading off computation time for accuracy, when exact learning and inference are computationally intractable.
leader-follower|Introduction|Master/slave is a model of asymmetric communication or control where one device or process (the "master") controls one or more other devices or processes (the "slaves") and serves as their communication hub.
appearance model|Introduction|A color appearance model (CAM) is a mathematical model that seeks to describe the perceptual aspects of human color vision, i.e.
neuro-fuzzy controller|Introduction|In the field of artificial intelligence, neuro-fuzzy refers to combinations of artificial neural networks and fuzzy logic.
translation process|Introduction|Translation is the communication of the meaning of a source-language text by means of an equivalent target-language text.
query execution|Introduction|A query plan (or query execution plan) is a sequence of steps used to access data in a SQL relational database management system.
action recognition|Introduction|Activity recognition aims to recognize the actions and goals of one or more agents from a series of observations on the agents' actions and the environmental conditions.
named entity|Introduction|Named-entity recognition (NER) (also known as (named) entity identification, entity chunking, and entity extraction) is a subtask of information extraction that seeks to locate and classify named entities mentioned in unstructured text into pre-defined categories such as person names, organizations, locations, medical codes, time expressions, quantities, monetary values, percentages, etc.
tracking method|Introduction|Maximum power point tracking (MPPT) or sometimes just power point tracking (PPT), is a technique used with variable power sources to maximize energy extraction as conditions vary.
stochastic nonlinear system|Introduction|System identification is a method of identifying or measuring the mathematical model of a system from measurements of the system inputs and outputs.
communicating sequential process|Introduction|In computer science, communicating sequential processes (CSP) is a formal language for describing patterns of interaction in concurrent systems.
rough set model|Introduction|In computer science, a rough set, first described by Polish computer scientist Zdzisław I. Pawlak, is a formal approximation of a crisp set (i.e., conventional set) in terms of a pair of sets which give the lower and the upper approximation of the original set.
worst-case execution time|Introduction|The worst-case execution time (WCET) of a computational task is the maximum length of time the task could take to execute on a specific hardware platform.
forecasting error|Introduction|In statistics, a forecast error is the difference between the actual or real and the predicted or forecast value of a time series or any other phenomenon of interest.
mobile service robot|Introduction|A mobile robot is an automatic machine that is capable of locomotion.
sat-solving|Introduction|In computer science and formal methods, a SAT solver is a computer program which aims to solve the Boolean satisfiability problem.
3d face model|Introduction|3D computer graphics, sometimes called CGI, 3D-CGI or three-dimensional computer graphics (in contrast to 2D computer graphics), are graphics that use a three-dimensional representation of geometric data (often Cartesian) that is stored in the computer for the purposes of performing calculations and rendering 2D images.
model checking problem|Introduction|In computer science, model checking or property checking is a method for checking whether a finite-state model of a system meets a given specification (also known as correctness).
local invariant feature|Introduction|The scale-invariant feature transform (SIFT) is a computer vision algorithm to detect, describe, and match local features in images, invented by David Lowe in 1999.
safety critical system|Introduction|A safety-critical system (SCS) or life-critical system is a system whose failure or malfunction may result in one (or more) of the following outcomes: death or serious injury to people, loss or severe damage to equipment/property, environmental harmA safety-related system (or sometimes safety-involved system) comprises everything (hardware, software, and human aspects) needed to perform one or more safety functions, in which failure would cause a significant increase in the safety risk for the people or environment involved.
terminology|Introduction|Terminology is a group of specialized words and respective meanings in a particular field, and also the study of such terms and their use; the latter meaning is also known as terminology science.
multi objective algorithm|Introduction|Multi-objective optimization (also known as multi-objective programming, vector optimization, multicriteria optimization, multiattribute optimization or Pareto optimization) is an area of multiple criteria decision making that is concerned with mathematical optimization problems involving more than one objective function to be optimized simultaneously.
fuzzy time series|Introduction|In mathematics, a time series is a series of data points indexed (or listed or graphed) in time order.
noise power|Introduction|In telecommunication, the term noise power has the following meanings: The measured total noise in a given bandwidth at the input or output of a device when the signal is not present; the integral of noise spectral density over the bandwidth; The power generated by a random electromagnetic process.
kripke semantics|Introduction|Kripke semantics (also known as relational semantics or frame semantics, and often confused with possible world semantics) is a formal semantics for non-classical logic systems created in the late 1950s and early 1960s by Saul Kripke and André Joyal.
cellular automaton model|Introduction|A cellular automaton (pl. cellular automata, abbrev.
human motion analysis|Introduction|Motion analysis is used in computer vision, image processing, high-speed photography and machine vision that studies methods and applications in which two or more consecutive images from an image sequences, e.g., produced by a video camera or high-speed camera, are processed to produce information based on the apparent motion in the images.
real-time java|Introduction|Real time Java is a catch-all term for a combination of technologies that enables programmers to write programs that meet the demands of real-time systems in the Java programming language.
video retrieval|Introduction|A video search engine is a web-based search engine which crawls the web for video content.
linear discriminants|Introduction|Linear discriminant analysis (LDA), normal discriminant analysis (NDA), or discriminant function analysis is a generalization of Fisher's linear discriminant, a method used in statistics and other fields, to find a linear combination of features that characterizes or separates two or more classes of objects or events.
swarm robot|Introduction|Swarm robotics is an approach to the coordination of multiple robots as a system which consist of large numbers of mostly simple physical robots.
forecasting accuracy|Introduction|Forecasting is the process of making predictions based on past and present data.
simulated annealing method|Introduction|Simulated annealing (SA) is a probabilistic technique for approximating the global optimum of a given function.
local feature|Introduction|Local feature size refers to several related concepts in computer graphics and computational geometry for measuring the size of a geometric object near a particular point.
formal logic|Introduction|Mathematical logic is the study of formal logic within mathematics.
robot behavior|Introduction|Behavior-based robotics (BBR) or behavioral robotics is an approach in robotics that focuses on robots that are able to exhibit complex-appearing behaviors despite little internal variable state to model its immediate environment, mostly gradually correcting its actions via sensory-motor links.
parallel corpus|Introduction|A parallel text is a text placed alongside its translation or translations.
printed text|Introduction|Printing is a process for mass reproducing text and images using a master form or template.
multi-object tracking|Introduction|Swordfish is an Indian active electronically scanned array (AESA) long-range tracking radar specifically developed to counter ballistic missile threat.
object classification|Introduction|Object recognition – technology in the field of computer vision for finding and identifying objects in an image or video sequence.
correlated equilibrium|Introduction|In game theory, a correlated equilibrium is a solution concept that is more general than the well known Nash equilibrium.
pneumatic cylinder|Introduction|Pneumatic cylinders (sometimes known as air cylinders) are mechanical devices  which use the power of compressed gas to produce a force in a reciprocating linear motion.: 85 Like hydraulic cylinders, something forces a piston to move in the desired direction.
classifier selection|Introduction|In statistics and machine learning, ensemble methods use multiple learning algorithms to obtain better predictive performance than could be obtained from any of the constituent learning algorithms alone.
data clustering|Introduction|Cluster analysis or clustering is the task of grouping a set of objects in such a way that objects in the same group (called a cluster) are more similar (in some sense) to each other than to those in other groups (clusters).
speech transmission|Introduction|Speech Transmission Index (STI) is a measure of speech transmission quality.
knowledge discovery|Introduction|Data mining is the process of extracting and discovering patterns in large data sets involving methods at the intersection of machine learning, statistics, and database systems.
estimation of distribution algorithm|Introduction|Estimation of distribution algorithms (EDAs), sometimes called probabilistic model-building genetic algorithms (PMBGAs), are stochastic optimization methods that guide the search for the optimum by building and sampling explicit probabilistic models of promising candidate solutions.
system dynamics model|Introduction|System dynamics (SD) is an approach to understanding the nonlinear behaviour of complex systems over time using stocks, flows, internal feedback loops, table functions and time delays.
game-theoretic model|Introduction|Game theory is the study of mathematical models of strategic interactions among rational agents.
moving object segmentation|Introduction|In digital image processing and computer vision, image segmentation is the process of partitioning a digital image into multiple image segments, also known as image regions or image objects (sets of pixels).
probability of detection|Introduction|In statistics, the power of a binary hypothesis test is the probability that the test correctly rejects the null hypothesis when a specific alternative hypothesis is true.
attitude controller|Introduction|Flight controllers are personnel who aid space flight by working in such Mission Control Centers as NASA's Mission Control Center or ESA's European Space Operations Centre.
multi objective particle swarm optimization|Introduction|Multi-objective optimization (also known as multi-objective programming, vector optimization, multicriteria optimization, multiattribute optimization or Pareto optimization) is an area of multiple criteria decision making that is concerned with mathematical optimization problems involving more than one objective function to be optimized simultaneously.
systems design|Introduction|Systems design interfaces, and data for an electronic control system to satisfy specified requirements.
english sentence|Introduction|There have been several claims for the longest sentence in the English language revolving around the longest printed sentence, although one linguistics textbook concludes that, in theory, "there is no longest English sentence."A sentence can be made arbitrarily long by successive iterations, such as "Someone thinks that someone thinks that someone thinks that...," or by combining shorter clauses in various ways.
printed document|Introduction|Sanitization is the process of removing sensitive information from a document or other message (or sometimes encrypting it), so that the document may be distributed to a broader audience.
disjunctive logic program|Introduction|Answer set programming (ASP) is a form of declarative programming oriented towards difficult (primarily NP-hard) search problems.
interpretability|Introduction|In mathematical logic, interpretability is a relation between formal theories that expresses the possibility of interpreting or translating one into the other.
target classification|Introduction|Decision Tree Learning is a supervised learning approach used in statistics, data mining and machine learning.
bayer pattern|Introduction|A Bayer filter mosaic is a color filter array (CFA) for arranging RGB color filters on a square grid of photosensors.
nash bargaining solution|Introduction|Cooperative bargaining is a process in which two people decide how to share a surplus that they can jointly generate.
document clustering|Introduction|Document clustering (or text clustering) is the application of cluster analysis to textual documents.
best response|Introduction|In game theory, the best response is the strategy (or strategies) which produces the most favorable outcome for a player, taking other players' strategies as given (Fudenberg & Tirole 1991, p.
strategy proof|Introduction|In game theory, an asymmetric game where players have private information is said to be strategy-proof or strategyproof (SP) if it is a weakly-dominant strategy for every player to reveal his/her private information,: 244 i.e.
content based filtering|Introduction|A recommender system, or a recommendation system (sometimes replacing 'system' with a synonym such as platform or engine), is a subclass of information filtering system that provide suggestions for items that are most pertinent to a particular user.
pseudo relevance feedback|Introduction|Relevance feedback is a feature of some information retrieval systems.
multi-objective differential evolution|Introduction|Multi-objective optimization (also known as multi-objective programming, vector optimization, multicriteria optimization, multiattribute optimization or Pareto optimization) is an area of multiple criteria decision making that is concerned with mathematical optimization problems involving more than one objective function to be optimized simultaneously.
clause learning|Introduction|In computer science, conflict-driven clause learning (CDCL) is an algorithm for solving the Boolean satisfiability problem (SAT).
finite model theory|Introduction|Finite model theory is a subarea of model theory.
theorem provers|Introduction|Automated theorem proving (also known as ATP or automated deduction) is a subfield of automated reasoning and mathematical logic dealing with proving mathematical theorems by computer programs.
foreground segmentation|Introduction|Foreground detection is one of the major tasks in the field of computer vision and image processing whose aim is to detect changes in image sequences.
sustainable competitive advantage|Introduction|In business, a competitive advantage is the attribute that allows an organization to outperform its competitors.
artificial neural network model|Introduction|Artificial neural networks (ANNs), usually simply called neural networks (NNs) or neural nets, are computing systems inspired by the biological neural networks that constitute animal brains.An ANN is based on a collection of connected units or nodes called artificial neurons, which loosely model the neurons in a biological brain.
learning organization|Introduction|In business management, a learning organization is a company that facilitates the learning of its members and continuously transforms itself.
Bayes' theorem|Introduction|In probability theory and statistics, Bayes' theorem (alternatively Bayes' law or Bayes' rule), named after Thomas Bayes, describes the probability of an event, based on prior knowledge of conditions that might be related to the event.
16-bit signed integer|Introduction|In computer science, an integer is a datum of integral data type, a data type that represents some range of mathematical integers.
cognitive map|Introduction|A cognitive map is a type of mental representation which serves an individual to acquire, code, store, recall, and decode information about the relative locations and attributes of phenomena in their everyday or metaphorical spatial environment.
tabu search|Introduction|Tabu search is a metaheuristic search method employing local search methods used for mathematical optimization.
evolutionary algorithm|Introduction|In computational intelligence (CI), an evolutionary algorithm (EA) is a subset of evolutionary computation, a generic population-based metaheuristic optimization algorithm.
suction cup|Introduction|A suction cup, also known as a sucker, is a device or object that uses the negative fluid pressure of air or water to adhere to nonporous surfaces, creating a partial vacuum.Suction cups are peripheral traits of some animals such as octopuses and squids, and have been reproduced artificially for numerous purposes.
gibbs sampling|Introduction|In statistics, Gibbs sampling or a Gibbs sampler is a Markov chain Monte Carlo (MCMC) algorithm for obtaining a sequence of observations which are approximated from a specified multivariate probability distribution, when direct sampling is difficult.
haar-like feature|Introduction|Haar-like features are digital image features used in object recognition.
fuzzy decision tree|Introduction|Decision Tree Learning is a supervised learning approach used in statistics, data mining and machine learning.
presburger arithmetic|Introduction|Presburger arithmetic is the first-order theory of the natural numbers with addition, named in honor of Mojżesz Presburger, who introduced it in 1929.
activity model|Introduction|In systems engineering, software engineering, and computer science, a function model or functional model is a structured representation of the functions (activities, actions, processes, operations) within the modeled system or subject area.
clickthrough data|Introduction|Learning to rank or machine-learned ranking (MLR) is the application of machine learning, typically supervised, semi-supervised or reinforcement learning, in the construction of ranking models for information retrieval systems.
non-negative matrix factorization algorithm|Introduction|Non-negative matrix factorization (NMF or NNMF), also non-negative matrix approximation is a group of algorithms in multivariate analysis and linear algebra where a matrix V is factorized into (usually) two matrices W and H, with the property that all three matrices have no negative elements.
cut elimination|Introduction|The cut-elimination theorem (or Gentzen's Hauptsatz) is the central result establishing the significance of the sequent calculus.
whole-body motion|Introduction|In physics, a rigid body (also known as a rigid object) is a solid body in which deformation is zero or so small it can be neglected.
variational bayesian|Introduction|Variational Bayesian methods are a family of techniques for approximating intractable integrals arising in Bayesian inference and machine learning.
penalty function|Introduction|Penalty methods are a certain class of algorithms for solving constrained optimization problems.
defeasible reasoning|Introduction|In philosophical logic, defeasible reasoning is a kind of reasoning that is rationally compelling, though not deductively valid.
cellular automata model|Introduction|A cellular automaton (pl. cellular automata, abbrev.
medical database|Introduction|In computing, a database is an organized collection of data stored and accessed electronically.
secondary system|Introduction|The lymphatic system, or lymphoid system, is an organ system in vertebrates that is part of the immune system, and complementary to the circulatory system.
recommender system|Introduction|A recommender system, or a recommendation system (sometimes replacing 'system' with a synonym such as platform or engine), is a subclass of information filtering system that provide suggestions for items that are most pertinent to a particular user.
image search|Introduction|Reverse image search is a content-based image retrieval (CBIR) query technique that involves providing the CBIR system with a sample image that it will then base its search upon; in terms of information retrieval, the sample image is very useful in its ways.
decision model|Introduction|A decision model in decision theory is the starting point for a decision method within a formal (axiomatic) system.
artificial bee colony algorithm|Introduction|In computer science and operations research, the artificial bee colony algorithm (ABC) is an optimization algorithm based on the intelligent foraging behaviour of honey bee swarm, proposed by Derviş Karaboğa (Erciyes University) in 2005.
video shot|Introduction|This is a list of one-shot music videos filmed in one long take by a single camera, or manufactured to give the impression it was.
answer set|Introduction|Answer set programming (ASP) is a form of declarative programming oriented towards difficult (primarily NP-hard) search problems.
textual data|Introduction|In linguistics, a corpus (plural corpora) or text corpus is a language resource consisting of a large and structured set of texts (nowadays usually electronically stored and processed).
chinese language|Introduction|Chinese (simplified Chinese: 汉语; traditional Chinese: 漢語; pinyin: Hànyǔ or also 中文; Zhōngwén, especially for the written language) is a group of languages that form the Sinitic branch of the Sino-Tibetan languages family, spoken by the ethnic Han Chinese majority and many minority ethnic groups in Greater China.
cognitive radio technology|Introduction|A cognitive radio (CR) is a radio that can be programmed and configured dynamically to use the best wireless channels in its vicinity to avoid user interference and congestion.
triaxial accelerometer|Introduction|An accelerometer is a tool that measures proper acceleration.
local binary pattern (lbp)|Introduction|Local binary patterns (LBP) is a type of visual descriptor used for classification in computer vision.
cluster validity|Introduction|k-means clustering is a method of vector quantization, originally from signal processing, that aims to partition n observations into k clusters in which each observation belongs to the cluster with the nearest mean (cluster centers or cluster centroid), serving as a prototype of the cluster.
symbolic regression|Introduction|Symbolic regression (SR) is a type of regression analysis that searches the space of mathematical expressions to find the model that best fits a given dataset, both in terms of accuracy and simplicity.
learning from demonstration|Introduction|Reinforcement learning (RL) is an area of machine learning concerned with how intelligent agents ought to take actions in an environment in order to maximize the notion of cumulative reward.
prisoners dilemma|Introduction|The prisoner's dilemma is a standard example of a game analyzed in game theory that shows why two completely rational individuals might not cooperate, even if it appears that it is in their best interests to do so.
distributed scheduling|Introduction|A job scheduler is a computer application for controlling unattended background program execution of jobs.
gabor filter|Introduction|In image processing, a Gabor filter, named after Dennis Gabor, is a linear filter used for texture analysis, which essentially means that it analyzes whether there is any specific frequency content in the image in specific directions in a localized region around the point or region of analysis.
moving object tracking|Introduction|Video tracking is the process of locating a moving object (or multiple objects) over time using a camera.
advanced traffic management system|Introduction|The Advanced Traffic Management System (ATMS) field is a primary subfield within the Intelligent Transportation System (ITS) domain.
multi-criteria decision analysis|Introduction|Multiple-criteria decision-making (MCDM) or multiple-criteria decision analysis (MCDA) is a sub-discipline of operations research that explicitly evaluates multiple conflicting criteria in decision making (both in daily life and in settings such as business, government and medicine).
global feature|Introduction|HMD Global Oy, branded as HMD and Nokia Mobile, is a Finnish mobile phone manufacturer.
anthropomorphic robot|Introduction|Sex robots or sexbots are anthropomorphic robotic sex dolls that have a humanoid form, human-like movement or behavior, and some degree of artificial intelligence.
syntactics|Introduction|In linguistics, syntax is the study of how words and morphemes combine to form larger units such as phrases and sentences.
pedestrian detection|Introduction|Pedestrian detection is an essential and significant task in any intelligent video surveillance system, as it provides the fundamental information for semantic understanding of the video footages.
low-dimensional manifold|Introduction|High-dimensional data, meaning data that requires more than two or three dimensions to represent, can be  difficult to interpret.
Cynthia Werner|Introduction|Cynthia von Doom is a fictional character appearing in American comic books published by Marvel Comics.
hidden markov modeling|Introduction|A hidden Markov model (HMM) is a statistical Markov model in which the system being modeled is assumed to be a Markov process — call it — with unobservable ("hidden") states.
combination forecasting|Introduction|Forecasting is the process of making predictions based on past and present data.
foreground object|Introduction|Foreground detection is one of the major tasks in the field of computer vision and image processing whose aim is to detect changes in image sequences.
Odometry|Introduction|Geometry (from Ancient Greek  γεωμετρία (geōmetría) 'land measurement'; from  γῆ (gê) 'earth, land', and  μέτρον (métron) 'a measure') is, with arithmetic, one of the oldest branches of mathematics.
nsga-ii algorithm|Introduction|In applied mathematics, test functions, known as artificial landscapes, are useful to evaluate characteristics of optimization algorithms, such as: Convergence rate.
random forest classifier|Introduction|Random forests or random decision forests is an ensemble learning method for classification, regression and other tasks that operates by constructing a multitude of decision trees at training time.
automated theorem proving|Introduction|Automated theorem proving (also known as ATP or automated deduction) is a subfield of automated reasoning and mathematical logic dealing with proving mathematical theorems by computer programs.
small sample size|Introduction|Sample size determination is the act of choosing the number of observations or replicates to include in a statistical sample.
product feature|Introduction|A product manager (PM) is a professional role that is responsible for the development of products for an organization, known as the practice of product management.
hybrid particle swarm optimization algorithm|Introduction|In computational science, particle swarm optimization (PSO) is a computational method that optimizes a problem by iteratively trying to improve a candidate solution with regard to a given measure of quality.
human-human interaction|Introduction|Human–computer interaction (HCI) is research in the design and the use of computer technology, which focuses on the interfaces between people (users) and computers.
thermal-annealing|Introduction|In metallurgy and materials science, annealing is a heat treatment that alters the physical and sometimes chemical properties of a material to increase its ductility and reduce its hardness, making it more workable.
pedagogical agent|Introduction|A pedagogical agent is a concept borrowed from computer science and artificial intelligence and applied to education, usually as part of an intelligent tutoring system (ITS).
real-time rendering|Introduction|Real-time computer graphics or real-time rendering is the sub-field of computer graphics focused on producing and analyzing images in real time.
meta programming|Introduction|Metaprogramming is a programming technique in which computer programs have the ability to treat other programs as their data.
base classifier|Introduction|In statistics and machine learning, ensemble methods use multiple learning algorithms to obtain better predictive performance than could be obtained from any of the constituent learning algorithms alone.
long short term memory neural network|Introduction|Long short-term memory (LSTM) is an artificial neural network  used in the fields of artificial intelligence and deep learning.
textual data format|Introduction|Extensible Markup Language (XML) is a markup language and file format for storing, transmitting, and reconstructing arbitrary data.
manifold learning algorithm|Introduction|High-dimensional data, meaning data that requires more than two or three dimensions to represent, can be  difficult to interpret.
handwritten word recognition|Introduction|Intelligent Word Recognition, or IWR, is the recognition of unconstrained handwritten words.
electronic document|Introduction|An electronic document is any electronic media content (other than computer programs or system files) that is intended to be used in either an electronic form or as printed output.
pre-emptive scheduling|Introduction|Fixed-priority preemptive scheduling is a scheduling system commonly used in real-time systems.
smart environment|Introduction|Smart environments link computers and other smart devices to everyday settings and tasks.
image search engine|Introduction|Search engine optimization (SEO) is the process of improving the quality and quantity of website traffic to a website or a web page from search engines.
shape context|Introduction|Shape context is a feature descriptor used in object recognition.
prototype filter|Introduction|Prototype filters are electronic filter designs that are used as a template to produce a modified filter design for a particular application.
boolean network|Introduction|A Boolean network consists of a discrete set of boolean variables each of which has a Boolean function (possibly different for each variable) assigned to it which takes inputs from a subset of those variables and output that determines the state of the variable it is assigned to.
program logic|Introduction|Logic programming is a programming paradigm which is largely based on formal logic.
cluster validation|Introduction|Cluster analysis or clustering is the task of grouping a set of objects in such a way that objects in the same group (called a cluster) are more similar (in some sense) to each other than to those in other groups (clusters).
history of psychology|Introduction|Psychology is defined as "the scientific study of behavior and mental processes".
video search|Introduction|A video search engine is a web-based search engine which crawls the web for video content.
pareto principle|Introduction|The Pareto principle states that for many outcomes, roughly 80% of consequences come from 20% of causes (the "vital few").
distributed parameter|Introduction|In control theory, a distributed-parameter system (as opposed to a lumped-parameter system) is a system whose state space is infinite-dimensional.
content-based image retrieval|Introduction|Content-based image retrieval, also known as query by image content (QBIC) and content-based visual information retrieval (CBVIR), is the application of computer vision techniques to the image retrieval problem, that is, the problem of searching for digital images in large databases (see this survey for a scientific overview of the CBIR field).
human face recognition|Introduction|A facial recognition system is a technology capable of matching a human face from a digital image or a video frame against a database of faces, typically employed to authenticate users through ID verification services, works by pinpointing and measuring facial features from a given image.Development began on similar systems in the 1960s, beginning as a form of computer application.
question answering|Introduction|Question answering (QA) is a computer science discipline within the fields of information retrieval and natural language processing (NLP), which is concerned with building systems that automatically answer questions posed by humans in a natural language.
dynamic walking|Introduction|The Walking Dead is an American post-apocalyptic horror television series based on the comic book series of the same name by Robert Kirkman, Tony Moore, and Charlie Adlard—together forming the core of The Walking Dead franchise.
cluster validity index|Introduction|The Dunn index (DI) (introduced by J. C. Dunn in 1974) is a metric for evaluating clustering algorithms.
intelligence analyst|Introduction|Intelligence analysis is the application of individual and collective cognitive methods to weigh data and test hypotheses within a secret socio-cultural context.
robot dynamic|Introduction|Legged robots are a type of mobile robot which use articulated limbs, such as leg mechanisms, to provide locomotion.
argumentation|Introduction|Argumentation theory, or argumentation, is the interdisciplinary study of how conclusions can be supported or undermined by premises through logical reasoning.
naive bayesian classifier|Introduction|In statistics, naive Bayes classifiers are a family of simple "probabilistic classifiers" based on applying Bayes' theorem with strong (naive) independence assumptions between the features (see Bayes classifier).
handwritten digit recognition|Introduction|LeNet is a convolutional neural network structure proposed by LeCun et al.
candidate solution|Introduction|In mathematical optimization, a feasible region, feasible set, search space, or solution space is the set of all possible points (sets of values of the choice variables) of an optimization problem that satisfy the problem's constraints, potentially including inequalities, equalities, and integer constraints.
unmanned underwater vehicle|Introduction|Unmanned underwater vehicles (UUV), sometimes known as underwater drones, are submersible vehicles that can operate underwater without a human occupant.
image retrieval|Introduction|An image retrieval system is a computer system used for browsing, searching and retrieving images from a large database of digital images.
intelligent transportation|Introduction|An intelligent transportation system (ITS) is an advanced application which aims to provide innovative services relating to different modes of transport and traffic management and enable users to be better informed and make safer, more coordinated, and 'smarter' use of transport networks.
human-robot collaboration|Introduction|Human-Robot Collaboration is the study of collaborative processes in human and robot agents work together to achieve shared goals.
real-time scheduling algorithm|Introduction|The term scheduling analysis in real-time computing includes the analysis and testing of the scheduler system and the algorithms used in real-time applications.
dialogue management|Introduction|A dialogue system, or conversational agent (CA), is a computer system intended to converse with a human.
eigenfaces|Introduction|An eigenface is the name given to a set of eigenvectors when used in the computer vision problem of human face recognition.
meta-heuristic approach|Introduction|In computer science and mathematical optimization, a metaheuristic is a higher-level procedure or heuristic designed to find, generate, or select a heuristic (partial search algorithm) that may provide a sufficiently good solution to an optimization problem, especially with incomplete or imperfect information or limited computation capacity.
cnf formula|Introduction|In Boolean logic, a formula is in conjunctive normal form (CNF) or clausal normal form if it is a conjunction of one or more clauses, where a clause is a disjunction of literals; otherwise put, it is a product of sums or an AND of ORs.
cyber-physical system|Introduction|A cyber-physical system (CPS) or intelligent system is a computer system in which a mechanism is controlled or monitored by computer-based algorithms.
ensemble classifier|Introduction|In statistics and machine learning, ensemble methods use multiple learning algorithms to obtain better predictive performance than could be obtained from any of the constituent learning algorithms alone.
gabor feature|Introduction|In image processing, a Gabor filter, named after Dennis Gabor, is a linear filter used for texture analysis, which essentially means that it analyzes whether there is any specific frequency content in the image in specific directions in a localized region around the point or region of analysis.
interestingness measure|Introduction|A tape measure or measuring tape is a flexible ruler used to measure length or distance.
color filter array|Introduction|In digital imaging, a color filter array (CFA), or color filter mosaic (CFM), is a mosaic of tiny color filters placed over the pixel sensors of an image sensor to capture color information.
prolog (programming language)|Introduction|Prolog is a logic programming language associated with artificial intelligence and computational linguistics.Prolog has its roots in first-order logic, a formal logic, and unlike many other programming languages, Prolog is intended primarily as a declarative programming language: the program logic is expressed in terms of relations, represented as facts and rules.
OOUI|Introduction|Ooty (listen ), officially known as Udhagamandalam (also known as Ootacamund (listen ); abbreviated as Udhagai), is a city and a municipality in the Nilgiris district of the South Indian state of Tamil Nadu.
writer identification|Introduction|An identity document (also called ID or colloquially as papers) is any document that may be used to prove a person's identity.
machine translation|Introduction|Machine translation, sometimes referred to by the abbreviation MT (not to be confused with computer-aided translation, machine-aided human translation or interactive translation), is a sub-field of computational linguistics that investigates the use of software to translate text or speech from one language to another.
laser range finder|Introduction|A laser rangefinder, also known as a laser telemeter, is a rangefinder that uses a laser beam to determine the distance to an object.
clinical decision support|Introduction|A clinical decision support system (CDSS) is a health information technology, provides clinicians, staff, patients, or other individuals with knowledge and person-specific information, to help health and health care.
textual entailment|Introduction|Textual entailment (TE) in natural language processing is a directional relation between text fragments.
face alignment|Introduction|Wheel alignment sometimes referred to as breaking, or tracking is part of standard automobile maintenance that consists of adjusting the angles of wheels to the car manufacturer specifications.
shape information|Introduction|A shape or figure is a graphical representation of an object or its external boundary, outline, or external surface, as opposed to other properties such as color, texture, or material type.
text line|Introduction|Crisis Text Line is a global not-for-profit organization providing free mental health texting service through confidential crisis intervention via SMS message.
formal modelling|Introduction|In logic, mathematics, computer science, and linguistics, a formal language consists of words whose letters are taken from an alphabet and are well-formed according to a specific set of rules.
decision modeling|Introduction|A decision model in decision theory is the starting point for a decision method within a formal (axiomatic) system.
tacit knowledge|Introduction|Tacit knowledge or implicit knowledge—as opposed to formal, codified or explicit knowledge—is knowledge that is difficult to express or extract, and thus more difficult to transfer to others by means of writing it down or verbalizing it.
classification rule|Introduction|Given a population whose members each belong to one of a number of different sets or classes, a classification rule or classifier is a procedure by which the elements of the population set are each predicted to belong to one of the classes.
syntactic structure|Introduction|In linguistics, syntax is the study of how words and morphemes combine to form larger units such as phrases and sentences.
chinese word segmentation|Introduction|Text segmentation is the process of dividing written text into meaningful units, such as words, sentences, or topics.
audio-visual|Introduction|Audiovisual (AV) is electronic media possessing  both a sound and a visual component, such as slide-tape presentations, films, television programs, corporate conferencing, church services, and live theater productions.
vehicle license plate|Introduction|A vehicle registration plate, also known as a number plate (British English), license plate (American English), or licence plate (Canadian English), is a metal or plastic plate attached to a motor vehicle or trailer for official identification purposes.
optical character recognition|Introduction|Optical character recognition or optical character reader (OCR) is the electronic or mechanical conversion of images of typed, handwritten or printed text into machine-encoded text, whether from a scanned document, a photo of a document, a scene-photo (for example the text on signs and billboards in a landscape photo) or from subtitle text superimposed on an image (for example: from a television broadcast).Widely used as a form of data entry from printed paper data records – whether passport documents, invoices, bank statements, computerized receipts, business cards, mail, printouts of static-data, or any suitable documentation – it is a common method of digitizing printed texts so that they can be electronically edited, searched, stored more compactly, displayed on-line, and used in machine processes such as cognitive computing, machine translation, (extracted) text-to-speech, key data and text mining.
word embedding|Introduction|In natural language processing (NLP), word embedding is a term used for the representation of words for text analysis, typically in the form of a real-valued vector that encodes the meaning of the word such that the words that are closer in the vector space are expected to be similar in meaning.
gene expression programming|Introduction|In computer programming, gene expression programming (GEP) is an evolutionary algorithm that creates computer programs or models.
latent variable model|Introduction|A latent variable model is a statistical model that relates a set of observable variables (so-called manifest variables) to a set of latent variables.
vcg mechanism|Introduction|In mechanism design, a Vickrey–Clarke–Groves (VCG) mechanism is a generic truthful mechanism for achieving a socially-optimal solution.
spatial query|Introduction|A spatial database is a general-purpose database (usually a relational database) that has been enhanced to include spatial data that represents objects defined in a geometric space, along with tools for querying and analyzing such data.
human-robot interface|Introduction|In the industrial design field of human–computer interaction, a user interface (UI) is the space where interactions between humans and machines occur.
coalition formation|Introduction|In game theory, a cooperative game (or coalitional game) is a game with competition between groups of players ("coalitions") due to the possibility of external enforcement of cooperative behavior (e.g.
computer game|Introduction|A video game or computer game is an electronic game that involves interaction with a user interface or input device – such as a joystick, controller, keyboard, or motion sensing device – to generate visual feedback.
spoken dialogue system|Introduction|A dialogue system, or conversational agent (CA), is a computer system intended to converse with a human.
formal method|Introduction|In computer science, formal methods are mathematically rigorous techniques for the specification, development, and verification of software and hardware systems.
walking motion|Introduction|Walking (also known as ambulation) is one of the main gaits of terrestrial locomotion among legged animals.
evolutionary game theory|Introduction|Evolutionary game theory (EGT) is the application of game theory to evolving populations in biology.
propositional formula|Introduction|In propositional logic, a propositional formula is a type of syntactic formula which is well formed and has a truth value.
class label|Introduction|A label (as distinct from signage) is a piece of paper, plastic film, cloth, metal, or other material affixed to a container or product, on which is written or printed information or symbols about the product or item.
gabor wavelet|Introduction|Gabor wavelets are wavelets invented by Dennis Gabor using complex functions constructed to serve as a basis for Fourier transforms in information theory applications.
inference algorithm|Introduction|Type inference refers to the automatic detection of the type of an expression in a formal language.
binary particle swarm optimization|Introduction|In computational science, particle swarm optimization (PSO) is a computational method that optimizes a problem by iteratively trying to improve a candidate solution with regard to a given measure of quality.
association mining|Introduction|Association rule learning is a rule-based machine learning method for discovering interesting relations between variables in large databases.
spoken language understanding|Introduction|A literary language is the form (register) of a language used in written literature, which can be either a nonstandard dialect or a standardized variety of the language.
bag-of-visual-words|Introduction|In computer vision, the bag-of-words model (BoW model) sometimes called bag-of-visual-words model   can be applied to image classification or retrieval, by treating image features as words.
artificial bee colony|Introduction|In computer science and operations research, the artificial bee colony algorithm (ABC) is an optimization algorithm based on the intelligent foraging behaviour of honey bee swarm, proposed by Derviş Karaboğa (Erciyes University) in 2005.
records management|Introduction|Records management, also known as records and information management, is an organizational function devoted to the management of information in an organization throughout its life cycle, from the time of creation or receipt to its eventual disposition.
common-sense knowledge base|Introduction|A knowledge base (KB) is a technology used to store complex structured and unstructured information used by a computer system.
ensemble technique|Introduction|In statistics and machine learning, ensemble methods use multiple learning algorithms to obtain better predictive performance than could be obtained from any of the constituent learning algorithms alone.
dynamic spectrum access|Introduction|Dynamic spectrum management (DSM), also referred to as dynamic spectrum access (DSA), is a set of techniques based on theoretical concepts in network information theory and game theory that is being researched and developed to improve the performance of a communication network as a whole.
memetics|Introduction|Memetics is the study of information and culture based on an analogy with Darwinian evolution.
semantic relatedness|Introduction|Semantic similarity is a metric defined over a set of documents or terms, where the idea of distance between items is based on the likeness of their meaning or semantic content as opposed to lexicographical similarity.
similarity retrieval|Introduction|In data analysis, cosine similarity is a measure of similarity between two sequences of numbers.
personal health record|Introduction|A personal health record (PHR) is a health record where health data and other information related to the care of a patient is maintained by the patient.
primary system|Introduction|A primary (or portable or personal) life support system (or subsystem) (PLSS), is a device connected to an astronaut or cosmonaut's spacesuit, which allows extra-vehicular activity with maximum freedom, independent of a spacecraft's life support system.
parse tree|Introduction|A parse tree or parsing tree or derivation tree or concrete syntax tree is an ordered, rooted tree that represents the syntactic structure of a string according to some context-free grammar.
incentive compatibility|Introduction|A mechanism is called incentive-compatible (IC) if every participant can achieve the best outcome to themselves just by acting according to their true preferences.: 225 There are several different degrees of incentive-compatibility:
The stronger degree is dominant-strategy incentive-compatibility (DSIC).: 415  It means that truth-telling is a weakly-dominant strategy, i.e.
evolutionary game|Introduction|Evolutionary game theory (EGT) is the application of game theory to evolving populations in biology.
robot hand|Introduction|A robotic arm is a type of mechanical arm, usually programmable, with similar functions to a human arm; the arm may be the sum total of the mechanism or may be part of a more complex robot.
real-time object tracking|Introduction|A Siamese neural network (sometimes called a twin neural network) is an artificial neural network that uses the same weights while working in tandem on two different input vectors to compute comparable output vectors.
face hallucination|Introduction|Face hallucination refers to any superresolution technique which applies specifically to faces.
face model|Introduction|Shanola Hampton (born May 27, 1977) is an American actress best known for her role as Veronica Fisher on Showtime dramedy Shameless and as the face model of Rochelle in the video game Left 4 Dead 2.
automatic image annotation|Introduction|Automatic image annotation (also known as automatic image tagging or linguistic indexing) is the process by which a computer system automatically assigns metadata in the form of captioning or keywords to a digital image.
coalgebraic|Introduction|In mathematics, specifically in category theory, coalgebra is a structure defined according to a functor, with specific properties as defined below.
non-player character|Introduction|A non-player character, or non-playable character (NPC) is any character in a game that is not controlled by a player.
intelligent material|Introduction|Smart materials, also called intelligent or responsive materials, are designed materials that have one or more properties that can be significantly changed in a controlled fashion by external stimuli, such as stress, moisture, electric or magnetic fields, light, temperature, pH, or chemical compounds.
human action|Introduction|Human Action: A Treatise on Economics is a work by the Austrian economist and philosopher Ludwig von Mises.
evolutionary computation technique|Introduction|In computer science, evolutionary computation is a family of algorithms for global optimization inspired by biological evolution, and the subfield of artificial intelligence and soft computing studying these algorithms.
relational data|Introduction|The relational model (RM) is an approach to managing data using a structure and language consistent with first-order predicate logic, first described in 1969 by English computer scientist Edgar F. Codd, where all data is represented in terms of tuples, grouped into relations.
fuzzy rule-based classifier|Introduction|Hisao Ishibuchi from the Osaka Prefecture University, Osaka, Japan, was named Fellow of the Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers (IEEE) in 2014 for contributions to evolutionary multiobjective optimization and fuzzy rule-based classifier design.
natural language understanding|Introduction|Natural-language understanding (NLU) or natural-language interpretation (NLI) is a subtopic  of natural-language processing in artificial intelligence that deals with machine reading comprehension.
color histogram|Introduction|In image processing and photography, a color histogram is a representation of the distribution of colors in an image.
ensemble classification|Introduction|In statistics and machine learning, ensemble methods use multiple learning algorithms to obtain better predictive performance than could be obtained from any of the constituent learning algorithms alone.
bayesian estimation|Introduction|In estimation theory and decision theory, a Bayes estimator or a Bayes action is an estimator or decision rule that minimizes the posterior expected value of a loss function (i.e., the posterior expected loss).
local descriptor|Introduction|The Global Descriptor Table (GDT) is a data structure used by Intel x86-family processors starting with the 80286 in order to define the characteristics of the various memory areas used during program execution, including the base address, the size, and access privileges like executability and writability.
formal modeling|Introduction|Data modeling in software engineering is the process of creating a data model for an information system by applying certain formal techniques.
face recognition performance|Introduction|A facial recognition system is a technology capable of matching a human face from a digital image or a video frame against a database of faces, typically employed to authenticate users through ID verification services, works by pinpointing and measuring facial features from a given image.Development began on similar systems in the 1960s, beginning as a form of computer application.
genetic programming|Introduction|In artificial intelligence, genetic programming (GP) is a technique of evolving programs, starting from a population of unfit (usually random) programs, fit for a particular task by applying operations analogous to natural genetic processes to the population of programs.
machine translation system|Introduction|Machine translation, sometimes referred to by the abbreviation MT (not to be confused with computer-aided translation, machine-aided human translation or interactive translation), is a sub-field of computational linguistics that investigates the use of software to translate text or speech from one language to another.
gendered sexuality|Introduction|Gendered sexuality is the way in which gender and sexuality are often viewed as likened constructs, whereby the role of gender in an individual's life is informed by and impacts others' perceptions of their sexuality.
humanoid robotics|Introduction|A humanoid robot is a robot resembling the human body in shape.
document classification|Introduction|Document classification or document categorization is a problem in library science, information science and computer science.
