Question answering (QA) is a computer science discipline within the fields of information retrieval and natural language processing (NLP), which is concerned with building systems that automatically answer questions posed by humans in a natural language.
A question answering implementation, usually a computer program, may construct its answers by querying a structured database of knowledge or information, usually a knowledge base. More commonly, question answering systems can pull answers from an unstructured collection of natural language documents.

Question answering research attempts to deal with a wide range of question types including: fact, list, definition, How, Why, hypothetical, semantically constrained, and cross-lingual questions.

Some examples of natural language document collections used for question answering systems include: a local collection of reference texts, internal organization documents and web pages, compiled newswire reports, a set of Wikipedia pages, a subset of World Wide Web pages.


A way to categorize question answering systems is to use the technical approached used. There are a number of different types of QA systems, including rule-based systems, statistical systems, and hybrid systems.
Rule-based systems use a set of rules to determine the correct answer to a question. Statistical systems use statistical methods to find the most likely answer to a question. Hybrid systems use a combination of rule-based and statistical methods.


IR-based Question Answering, IR-based factoid question answering has three stages: question processing, passage retrieval, and answer extraction. Given a user question, information retrieval techniques first find relevant documents and passages. The QA system then reads these retrieved documents or passages and extracts the answer directly from text.

In, Document Retrieval, the standard TF-IDF cosine matching is often used to retrieve relevant documents.

Knowledge-based Question Answering, answering a natural language question by mapping it to a query over a structured database (knowledge base).

Question answering is commonly used to build conversational client applications, which include social media applications, chat bots, and speech-enabled desktop applications.





